 

                               		Destinations
                                        
                                            Africa &amp; Middle East
                                                
                                            
                                            Asia 
                                            Australia &amp; South Pacific 
                                            Canada 
                                            Caribbean 
                                            Europe 
                                            Latin America 
                                            Rest of the World 
                                            United States 
                                        
                                
                                Inspirations
                                	
                                        Adventure 
                                        Events/Occasions 
                                        Budget Travel 
                                        Beaches 
                                        Cruising 
                                        Families
                                        Food and Drink 
                                        History 
                                        Romance 
                                        Sports/Fitness 
                                        Nature/Wildlife 
                                        Luxury
                                        Travel Tips
                                        Underrated Escapes
                                    
                        
                        Destinations
Inspirations
Videos

                    
                    			Angela Nightingale 
        					

	Destination


	10 Must-See Natural Attractions in Iceland


    ADVERTISEMENT


								Situated at the edge of the famous Arctic Circle and located in one of the most active volcano spots in the whole world, Iceland is increasing its popularity every day when it comes to tourism. Iceland, at present, has the prestige to be one of the most impressively beautiful places in all of Europe.


One can discover fantastic landscapes and natural spots such as the rugged fjords, hot springs, and mixture of glaciers. Tourism in this country is also becoming flourished by activities like taking a bath in superb blue lagoons and hiking in midnight sun.


Below are some of the most famous and visited natural attractions in this beautiful country.


1. Blue Lagoon
This popular man-made geothermal spa of crystal clear water is the only site on earth you can swim in 40 degree centigrade water year round, and yet be encircled by ice and snow. An area where a by-product of the Svartsengi geothermal power plant is located, the lagoon's rich mineral content is known to be helpful to a variety of settings. The icy aquamarine waters set alongside the black background of the plain landscape make this glaring contrast even more impressive making it the most photographed attraction in Iceland.


2


2. Great Geyser
This natural spot is situated in the south-western Iceland and has been active for over 10,000 years. It can spurt boiling water up to seventy meters in the air. Geysers are frequently caused by surface water, making its way down for about 2,000 meters. Upon reaching the boiling point, it will then spout very hot water with steam, and both natural occurrences are very impressive to watch in person.


3


3. Lake Myvatn
Established as a conservation area in 1974, this place has turn to be one of the best tourist attractions. There's much to discover here such as the waterfall of the Gods, which is considered the most famous waterfall in Europe. One can also see the lavishness of bird-life, volcanic craters as well as beautiful lakes.


4


4. Asbyrgi
This is a 3 1/2 kilometer long canyon with 100 meter walls. Fulmars may be seen in this place during the breeding season. Asbyrgi is situated in the northern most region of the famed Jokulsargliufur National Park.


5


5. Seljalandsfoss
Located between Skógafoss and Selfoss, the Seljalandsfoss is said to be one of the most photographed waterfalls in the country. Tourists can walk behind the 60-meter high waterfalls, making it a remarkable sight. The lush green setting and misty environs make this a perfect attraction to visit to take in the feel of the countryside.


6


6. Glymur
Iceland's highest waterfall is graceful and nimble. Streamlets go downhill like ribbons of a post into an unfathomable canyon mantled in lush mosses and bird nests. The trek in this area is somewhat deceitful, but those people who brave it are pleased with captivating scenery as well as total solitude.


7


7. Gullfoss
This astonishing waterfall climaxes and crowns the renowned "Golden Circle" the country's most common day trip from the capital. This place looks almost too flawlessly landscaped to be real, but is definitely is.


8


8. Raufarholshellir
With the accurate precautions and preparations, any tourist can just walk straight into this lava-tube cavern and saunter more than 3/4 mile or a kilometer to its dimmest depths, past peculiar ice candles and lava formations.


9


9. Latrabjarg
These massive sea cliffs at Iceland's western most point verify that the "endpoints of the earth" certainly come with a bang. The sheer volume of many types of birds is incredible, and the puffins (photographed) are willing to have their photo taken.


10


10. Hornbjarg
These ocean cliffs in this country's far northwest are not simple and easy to reach, but travelers are treated to the most stunning sight on the Iceland's entire coastline. A razor-backed and undulating ridge is carved against the sky and on its inland part, a sheer-hill scoops down to a lovely plateau. The opposite side is a pure 534 meters drop to the sea.


Photo by: Erik-Jan Vens


												ADVERTISEMENT 

	
             facebook 
             tweet 
             google+ 
            email 
        
 
	More on EscapeHere
	
					
				The 10 Best Cities to Retire in the US

				Choosing where to retire in the US can be very overwhelming - so many great options and factors to consider! &nbsp; Regardless of whether you're seeking an action-packed retirement or looking


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				12 Tips for Healthy Travel

				Traveling for business or pleasure can easily derail your health and fitness regime.


				                        									Travel Tips
								    
			
				The Top 10 Places to Visit in Puerto Rico

				Taking a trip to a tropical paradise is the dream of many. The lure of clear blue water, sandy beaches and laid back lifestyle is a huge attraction.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				6 Ways to Get Out of the Grind in Cuba

				Thoughts of Cuba evoke images of pristine beaches, far-reaching ocean, and tropical drinks.


				                        									Adventure
								    
			
				The 7 Best Cheap Eats in New York City

				The Big Apple can get pricey and with so many gourmet restaurants and notable chefs in the city, food sometimes doesn't seem to come cheap either.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				7 Things to See and Do in Fiji

				It isn't hard to understand why people of all ages want to travel to Fiji on their next vacation.


				                        									Australia &amp; South Pacific
								    
			
				The Top 10 Artsy Towns in America

				For those with the slightest creative bent, there is something inherently romantic about 'artsy' places, places where great artists congregated, often out of poverty, a sense of adventure, a disdain


				                        									Arts/Culture
								    
			
				The Fairy Tale Tour: 10 Best Medieval Castles in Europe

				Since ancient times, Europe has been layered in history, and one of the best ways to see the culmination of different architectural styles is the famous castles.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				The 7 Dirtiest Things on an Airplane

				Breaking news: airplanes are dirty, but that shouldn't come as a surprise to many who watch thousands of people load into these metal tubes and fly hours from one destination


				                        									Travel Tips
								    
			
				Britain's 15 Best Beaches

				Many people don't necessarily think of hitting the beach when they visit the UK, but in fact it is absolutely loaded with beautiful coastline, alas the water isn't always the


				                        									Beaches
								    
			
				The 7 Best Bakeries in the 5 Boroughs

				Cookies and cakes, bread and bagels, oh my! New Yorkers love baked goods -- that's no surprise, especially given that the city's unofficial pastry patron is the bagel.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				America's 20 Favorite Buildings

				Consider it The People's Choice awards for architecture. The American Institute of Architects commissioned a public poll on the most popular architectural works in the country.


				                        									Arts/Culture
								    
			
				The 12 Best Streets Foods in Italy

				Many people don't associate Italy with street food, but they would be missing out on a country that offers regional specialties and unique eats.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				The 8 Best Hotels for Foodies in the USA

				Traveling is about discovering new people, places, culture, and -- of course -- food, glorious food.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				7 Unforgettable Backdrops on California's 17 Mile Drive

				California's 17 Mile Drive winds along a dramatic coastline connected to the Pacific Coast Highway, a world-renowned coastal drive with a wealth of striking natural attractions.


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				The 7 Most Beautiful Views In France

				It seems that France was created with hundreds if not thousands of opportunities to snap the perfect photo, as it is loaded with 2,000+ miles of shoreline, seven major mountain


				                        									Destination
								    
			
				10 Steps to a Perfect Vacation

				No matter if you're planning the trip of a lifetime, or if you're embarking on a quick weekend getaway, having an awesome vacation (i.e.


				                        									Travel Tips
								    
			
	Comments
		
	
		More from EscapeHere
    
                    
                    The Top Hostels to Stay (and Save) When in Europe

                    															Budget Travel
								                 

                    10 Things to See and Do in Iceland

                    															Adventure
								                 

                    The 10 Most Beautiful Views in Iceland

                    															Destination
								                 

                    The 10 Best Places To Spend New Year's Eve in Europe

                    															Destination
								                 

                    The 7 Best Places for a Winter Wedding

                    															Inspiration
								                 

                    8 Interesting Travel Destinations With Low Terror Risks

                    															Trending Travel
								                 

Follow EscapeHere
    
        
            Like Us On Facebook 

            
            Follow Us On Twitter 

            
                Follow @EscapeHere_com
                
            
		We Recommend    
        
                    
            The 7 Safest Cities For Women to Travel Alone in Europe

            															Destination
								 				

            10 Interesting Facts About Iceland

            															Destination
								 				

            10 Waterfalls to See Before You Die

            															Inspiration
								 				

            5 European Fall Festivals to Beat the Winter Blues

            															Destination
								 				

            10 Things to Know About Iceland's Blue Lagoon

            															Destination
								 				

					&nbsp;

		
						Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Back to Top


									EscapeHere.com is part of the Concourse Media network. 

		
