 Iceland is one of our favorite countries, so many natural wonders here! Only a few top lists do it without Iceland, therefore we created this list made entirely of Icelandic beauties. Have you seen any of them? Aren't they unbelievable?

10. Whale Watching The gentle marine giants can be seen from the different locations in the country including Reykjavík. Several companies organize the 2-3 hour whale watching tours. Icelanders also hunt whales, so later you can order it in the restaurant. Cruel, but this is life.

Why to go there?

A rare opportunity to see these amazing creatures, out in the wild.

When to go there?

From May to September
.
Photo by Einar Gudmann


 Photo by Rebekka Guðleifsdóttir


9. Geysers Due to the volcanic activities underneath the surface, a lot of geysers, underground springs and thermal pools are scattered all around the country. To see a powerful hot stream shooting from the ground is definitely exciting.

Where to go?

Strokkur in the southwest of Iceland beside the Hvítá River is a popular fountain geyser. Many geysers are found in Haukadalur in the south of the country.

Photo by Thomas Buchmann


Photo by Alfio Ansaloni


Photo by Edwin Martinez


8. Landmannalaugar The multicolored rhyolite mountains, lava fields and the Hekla volcano make it a popular tourist destination. The striking landscapes look like a different planet. Hiking and horse riding are among the most popular activities here.

When to go there?

Anytime, although summer might be the best time to go.

Read more: Vast Landscapes of Landmannalaugar 

Photo by DamPhotography


Photo by Emmanuel Dautriche


Photo by Alexandre Deschaumes


7. Maelifell Volcano, Myrdalsjökull Glacier Park The perfect cone makes Maelifell a classic looking volcano. During the warm season, snow uncovers a lavish green surface, covered with moss. There is plenty to do and see in the park, full of volcanoes, hot springs and other beautiful sites.

When to go there?

In summer.

Read more: Top 10 Stunning Volcanoes Around the World

Photo by Yann Arthus Bertrand


Photo by Unknown


6. Kirkjufell Mountain Near a small town of Grundarfjörður in the western Iceland, the mountain beautifully sticks out in a plain landscape. In the surroundings of this striking mountain one can find small waterfalls and admire the Northern Lights at night.

Why to go there?

Unspoiled stunning nature.

How to get there?

By bus from the bigger cities.

Photo by Jonathan Besler


Photo by Oxy Z


5. Skaftafell Ice Cave, Vatnajökull National Park The land of ice -- the country is literally covered in ice and snow. The overwhelmingly beautiful ice caves attract adventurers. The travel agencies organize trips to the glaciers, from where the caves can be visited.

When to go there?

In winter, when the ice doesn't melt and is safe to enter.

Read more: Top 10 Ice Caves in the World 

Photo by Einar Runar Sigurdsson


Photo by Einar Runar Sigurdsson


Photo by Einar Runar Sigurdsson


4. Blue Lagoon, Grindavík A geothermal spa offers the most relaxing natural bathing experience you've never had and is a most tempting attraction, located only 40 minutes away from Reykjavík. The water from the underground hot springs reaches 37--39 °C and is beneficial for health and skin.

Why to go there?

Who doesn't love to relax in the spa centre with all the facilities and various services.

Read more: The Relaxing Pleasures in Hot Blue Lagoon

Photo by Unknown


Photo by Unknown


Photo by Unknown


3. Aurora Borealis The northern phenomenon is also among the most popular attractions. The dazzling lights are especially bright this year, due to the increase of solar activity. The lights are best admired in remote places, away from the urban lights.

When to go there?

From the middle of September to the middle of April.

Read more: Aurora Borealis Forecast 

Photo by Carlos Resende


Photo by Thierry Bornier


Photo by Carlos F Turienzo


2. Hallgrímskirkja The unique church is situated in the middle of Reykjavík. It is the tallest and most recognizable building in the country. The architecture was inspired by the Black Falls -- another Icelandic natural wonder.

Why to go there?

A must see once in the capital of Iceland. A wonderful panorama of the city opens from the top.

Read more: Visit Hallgrímskirkja -- a Nature Inspired Church

Photo by Mitch Russo


Photo by Andreas Jonsson


Photo by Gavin Hellier


1. Gullfoss Waterfall The gorgeous waterfall is one of the most popular attractions in the country. Located in the canyon, which forms three step terraces, river Hvítá plunges creating a powerful stream and Gullfoss. There are no rails -- just a natural surroundings.

Why to go there?

The must see in Iceland, exciting experience.

When to go there?

The plunge is stronger in summer.

Photo by Coolbiere. A.


Photo by Daniel Korzhonov


Photo by Peter Foldiak

 &nbsp; 

 
