   
  
Confirm
Are you sure you wish to make this page not indexed?


 Go back to top
 
  
Book Your Trip Rent a car Connect with locals Explore Iceland Your cart Log in  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sign in with Facebook &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sign in with Google+ &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Sign in with Weibo
- or -

  Deutsch Español Français Italiano 日本語 한국어 中文


Find a tour Rent a car Find accommodation Book a flight 


 The Most Romantic Places in Iceland
 
 Text by: Nanna Gunnarsdóttir   
 

What are the most romantic and beautiful places in Iceland and what makes one place more romantic than the other? See my list of the most romantic places in Iceland.


When Iceland is filled with stunning landscapes it may be hard to choose where to go for a romantic destination. It doesn't come as a surprise that many couples choose to come to Iceland to get married - and Guide to Iceland can help you plan your wedding in Iceland &nbsp; But which place to choose for a romantic weekend? Following is a list of my to &nbsp; romantic locations in Iceland, mostly within a few hours drive from Reykjavík.


Obviously, if you want to be on your own then you should rent a car and drive yourself to these locations - but it can also be fun to go on a tour (and in some cases necessary!)


Thorsmork valley


Þórsmörk is my top romantic destination. Obviously it's the company that makes every location romantic but it helps to be surrounded by stunning views. Experiencing the midnight sun here is something that will stay with you forever.


This green valley is filled with beautiful rock formations, mountains, rivers and great hiking paths for every level. You can choose to sleep in Skagfjörðsskáli hut, Básar hut, Volcano Hut &nbsp; or you can bring your own tent and nestle in a small clearing. Thorsmork is known for having slightly better weather than its surroundings - but even if it rains, it just makes it cosy and romantic listening to the drops on the roof of your tent.


From Básar you can hike up to Eyjafjallajökull glacier and see the steam rise from the ground where the famous volcanic eruption took place in 2010. The ground there is still warm and it's nice to si &nbsp; down and feel it warm up your legs as you look over the stunning surroundings.


There are also plenty of gorgeous other hikes inside and around Þórsmörk, such as over the ridge Kattarhryggur (Cat's Spine), up to the top of Valahnúkur mountain or hike into Stakkholtsgjá canyon, pictured above, where you'll find a waterfall at the bottom of the canyon.


Þórsmörk's beauty is mentioned in the story of Burnt Njal (Brennu-Njáls saga) &nbsp; Gunnar, a famous and strong Viking, had been outlawed. As he was riding out of Þórsmörk he looked back and said that the hill was so beautiful that he would not leave. And still today, when you go to Þórsmörk, you'll never want to leave.


Þórsmörk is mainly accessible during summer &nbsp; I wouldn't advise driving yourself to Þórsmörk, as you'll need to cross some rivers on the way - and you should definitely NOT attempt to go there in wintertime on your own &nbsp; Find bus transfers here o &nbsp; tours to Þórsmörk here, some available in wintertime too (with experienced drivers that know the area well).


Snaefellsnes peninsula


Snæfellsjökull is the glacier that crowns the end of the Snæfellsnes peninsula. Surrounding it is a national park, filled with birdlife, hiking treks and small fishing villages. You'll also find nice rocks, such as the Lóndrangar that are pictured here above. Between Arnarstapi and Hellnar is a beautiful and easy hiking trek (less than an hour) and a nice little café by the seaside in Hellnar.


Djúpalónssandur is another gorgeous location, a black, pebbly beach with some remains of a shipwreck scattered across the pebbles and sand. Nearby is Djúpalón lake, which is also stunning, an &nbsp; best viewed from above, as you can see in the video here above.


In the small village Rif, you can find a café called Gamla Rif that serves one of the best seafood soups I've ever had. You'll surely find it, just ask the locals.


The mountain Kirkjufell has also become a favourite spot for photographers, with its iconic triangular shape and the nearby waterfall.


But my personal favourite is trekking up to the top of Snæfellsjökull glacier in the middle of the summer and standing on top of the glacier, looking towards Reykjavík on one side and over Breiðafjörður on the other in a twilight of different shades of pink, orange, golden and purple. Simpl &nbsp; ideal for lovebirds. Even better if you remember to bring a bottle of hot chocolate and a blanket with you and sit down on the glacier in the midnight sun.


You can visit Snæfellsnes all year round, find Snæfellsnes tours here or rent a car and drive yourself.


Reykjadalur valley


Reykjadalu &nbsp; is a valley just outside of Reykjavík. Through it runs a warm river. It's warm all year round so you could possibly go there in the wintertime and sit in hot water whilst watching the Northern Lights. (Basically any hot tub/river/hot spring is the most romantic place on earth if you have the Northern Lights putting on a private dance above you!) Nevertheless, I'd rather recommend going there in the summer. It's quite popular so chances are you won't be there on your own. If you go mid-week and overnight you might be in luck.


My advice: Firstly book a table at Fjöruborðið (At the Seashore) for the best langoustine you will possibly ever have. They are busy for a reason, make sure you reserve a table. The restaurant is situated in Stokkseyri, a short drive from Hveragerði where the hike starts to Reykjadalur.


Then you can hike up to Reykjadalur in the evening (don't worry, it doesn't get dark in summertime!), bring a tent, sleeping bags (that you can zip up together!), a bottle of wine and maybe even some chocolate. Try to find a suitable place to camp on the banks of the river. Then enjoy a glass of wine with your loved one whilst sitting in warm water underneath the midnight sun. &nbsp; The following day you can jog down to the scenic village of Hveragerði for breakfast.


This is easy to do on your own, just rent a car and drive to Hveragerði (or Stokkseyri first for the lobster dinner!). The drive from Reykjavík to Hveragerði is only about 45 minutes. You can also take a bus to get there (but then your timing won't be as flexible). The hike is about 1,5-2 hours going up and 1-1,5 hours going down.


Alternatively, you can go on this guided hike to Reykjadalur or this horseback riding tour to Reykjadalur.


Ice cav &nbsp; inside Vatnajökul &nbsp; glacier


The locations I've mentioned so far I think are best in the summertime, so what about the wintertime?


Well, if you're coming to Iceland during wintertime, then you can't miss out on a natural glacier cave in the south east of the country. The ice caves in Vatnajökull glacier are only accessible during certain weather conditions (it needs to be cold! Otherwise they will melt and become very dangerous...) and you have to go with a guide inside them so you can't really be on your own.


However, this is one of the most popular place in the country for proposals to take place. I mean, it looks like a crystal palac &nbsp; from a fairytale, so it's not really surprising - you'll be hard pressed to find a more magical natural beauty!


And even if it's cold, Iceland's cold weather is fairly dry so you can dress it off with plenty of warm layers. What makes this place even better is that it's far away from Reykjavík, so you'll need at least 2 days (even better to take 3) to go there and back - and there are plenty of gorgeous places on the way &nbsp; My favourites include the cliffs a &nbsp; Dyrhólaey, Seljalandsfoss waterfall (that you can walk behind) and Gljúfrabúi waterfall (inside a cave) &nbsp; Fjaðrárgljúfur canyon and Skaftafell nature reserve (hike up to Svartifoss waterfall, it's gorgeous!).


And the créme de la créme is of cours &nbsp; Jökulsárlón glacier lagoon and the nearby Diamond Beach! So it's the perfect weekend getaway, far from the stress of city life.

 &nbsp; 


Also, because it's wintertime there's a chance you'll see the Northern Lights dancing above you at night - or that you need to cuddle up tight if there's a snow blizzard raging outside.


Just imagine: Sleep in, enjo &nbsp; a good breakfast together, explor &nbsp; the gorgeous crystal ice cave in the early afternoon, stroll along the Diamond Beach in the late afternoon, have a nice warm drink and admire the Northern Lights at nigh &nbsp; dancing over the glacier lagoon - or snuggle up i &nbsp; a hot tub with snowflakes melting on your face on a cloudy day.


You can drive the south coast yourself &nbsp; this 3 day winter self drive tour (that includes accommodation and a visit to the ice cave) gives you great flexibility to do so.


This video can give you an idea of what you might see on the south coast of Iceland!


These are just a few of my favourite places, but there is plenty more to choose from &nbsp; For more exciting and romantic locations in Iceland, check ou &nbsp; these 20 hidden gems in Icelan &nbsp; to see some locations off the beaten path, the best hot springs in Icelan &nbsp; for  &nbsp; relaxing soak in the nature an &nbsp; these most unique experiences in Iceland for some exciting activities.


And if you want to explore the country on your own, then check out thes &nbsp; self drive tour &nbsp; an &nbsp; see th &nbsp; best attractions by Route 1 in Iceland.


 Popular 
 Latest 
  
  
 Best places for marriage proposals in Iceland  
  
 Where to propose in Iceland? How to do the perfect wedding proposal ... 
   
 
 Shopping for groceries in Iceland  
  
 Where should you buy food in Iceland? Where will you fin &nbsp; the best p... 
   
 
 Folklore in Iceland  
  
 Since the dawn of history, Icelander &nbsp; have told fantastic tales of t... 
   
 
 Iceland in July  
  
 Are you wondering what the weather in Iceland during July is like? S... 
   
 
 9 worst tourist traps in Iceland  
  
 Iceland is one of the friendliest and safest countries in the world.... 
   
 
 Yoga in Iceland  
  
 Known for longevity, happiness, and well-being, Icelanders rank amo... 
   
 
 Midnight Sun in Iceland  
  
 When doe &nbsp; the midnight sun in Iceland take place? How long does a su... 
   
 
 Top 10 Beautiful Waterfalls of Iceland  
  
 Iceland is a country of many amazing waterfalls. Below are some of t... 
   
 
 22 Photos Of The Aurora In Iceland  
  
 The Aurora is one of the most amazing sights you will ever see in your... 
   
 
 Glaciers in Iceland  
  
 Iceland is known as 'The Land of Fire and Ice'. That is beca... 
   
 
 Mountains in Iceland  
  
 Which mountain &nbsp; are the most beautiful mountains in Iceland, where a... 
   
 
 Top 12 things to do in Iceland  
  
 What should you do while in Iceland and where should you go? What acti... 
   
 
 Other interesting articles 
  
  
 Best places for marriage proposals in Iceland
 
 Where to propose in Iceland? How to do the perfect wedding proposal in Iceland &nbsp; Find the best loca
 
 Read more
 
 
 Top 11 travel tips in Iceland
 
 I am often contacted by foreign friends who are planning to visit Iceland. Where should they go in
 
 Read more
 
 
 Top 10 sexiest women in Iceland 2014
 
 In response to the list Sexiest men in Iceland 2014, written by a male, I decided to make this list 
 
 Read more
 
 
 Home 
   
  
 &nbsp;  &nbsp;  
  
  
 Explore Iceland 
   
  
 &nbsp;  &nbsp;  
  
  
 Best of Iceland 
   
  
 &nbsp;  &nbsp;  
  
  
 The Most Romantic Places in Iceland 
   
  
 Guide to IcelandAbout usAwardsTerms &amp; conditionsCopyright &amp; privacy Laugavegur 12, 101 Reykjavík +354 519 79 99 info@guidetoiceland.is     
Type of TravelAll things to doSelf drive toursFamily TripsGroup TravelLuxury TravelBusiness TravelSpecial RequestsMedia support &amp; sponsorshipDMC &amp; incentivesMedia productionWeddings &amp; honeymoonsCar Rental
Join our teamBecome a local contactList your business and productsWork at Guide to IcelandMarkaðstorg ferðaþjónustunnarExplore IcelandNature of IcelandTravel InformationReykjavik GuideHistory &amp; CultureMusic of IcelandThe Northern LightsBest of IcelandItineraries
Facebook page


 Contact us 
  
  
