
Log inRegister
We use cookies to personalise content, track and measure adverts and to authenticate your usage of this service. By clicking on or navigating this website you agree to allow us to place cookies on your device and collect information on and off the site. For more information please refer to our cookie policy.
Accept
SHARE ON
Back to stories Previous article Next article
Top things to do in Madagascar

by Claudia
Published on
November 12, 2014
Comments
87
Read
24,564
times
Madagascar has something for everyone who loves animals, nature, beaches, deserts, trekking or diving. It is a dream destination for those who love adventure and the outdoors. As fun as all the activities sound, half the joy comes from travelling to those places. So without further ado, let’s take a look at the top things you can experience in Madagascar. 

 

1. Royal Hill of Ambohimanga

A UNESCO World Heritage Site and popular tourist attraction, the Royal Hill of Ambohimanga is located 20km from Antananarivo, the largest city in Madagascar- which makes it an ideal spot for a day excursion. Set in a lush green countryside environment and a peaceful atmosphere, you can explore the compounds consisting of a royal city, burial sites and an ensemble of sacred places.

2. Isalo National Park 

The Isalo National Park is notable for its varied terrain. Located in the central southern region of Madagascar, the park features many steep canyons and sandstone formations for you to explore, dating back to the Jurassic era.

3. Explore the island of Nosy Be 

Clear turquoise waters and excellent seafood that restaurants are serving are what makes Nosy Be a premier tourist spot, attracting thousands from around the world every year. Explore this small island and come across the famous black lemurs and marine reserves for a snorkeling experience like no other.

4. Avenue of Baobabs 

The Avenue of Baobabs is the 15km long road between Morondave and Belon’I Tsiribihina in western Madagascar, overgrown by these majestic trees. Boasting 7 distinct species of the curious trees, each one is spectacular and breathtaking in its own way.

Tip: The best time to see this wonderful site would be during sunrise and sunset where you can see the full beauty of the trees with the best natural lighting ever.

5. Lemur Island 

There are 101 species (including subspecies) of lemurs that can be found on Madagascar. Being isolated from the continent and not having a competition in a form of other predators, they can be found in almost every place on the island. They are the most threatened mammal group on Earth due to the hunting and deforestation, so try visiting Madagascar with an operator focused on ecotourism. You can also get involved in the conservation projects run by Conservation International or WWF.

6. Zoma Market

Antananarivo is the capital city of Madagascar. It is right here in the centre of this vibrant city, where the colourful Zoma Market comes to life. It is one of the largest markets in the world! Explore the endless stalls that offer some of the best products that the island has to offer and discover the Madagascar's finest handicrafts.

7. Whale watching 

Humpback whales come from the waters of the South Pole to St Marie channel each June and at this time they can be seen from every spot on the island. If you want the best experience, take a tour led by a whale specialist and head to the deep sea. Make sure your tour is arranged along the regulations that protect whales from stress caused by tourists.

 

Are you inspired to visit Madagascar? For more information please visit the official Vanilla Islands profile page on WAYN and you can also go to http://vanilla-islands.org 

We would love to hear from you so please comment below and post your photos and tips on the Madagascar destination page.

 

 
 

PayPal ? The safer, easier way to pay online. Liked this article? Buy us a coffee.
Donate now via Paypal
Previous article Next article

Similar Stories
Read More
The Beauty of Vanilla Islands - Top Facts
by Claudia
March 25, 2015
Read More
Discovering the Garden Route
by Katie
January 30, 2015
Read More
Fascinating facts about Table Mountain
by Agnes
November 17, 2014
  by Taboola Sponsored Links 
You May Like
The "Mortgage Rebate Program" Banks Don't Want You to Know About
HARP-Approved.com Quotes
22 Terrifying Places That Have Been Abandoned
Best Viral Photos
The World's Most Expensive Divorce Settlements
DirectExpose
10 Best Vacation Spots In Europe
Traveler Almanac
This Is What Happens When you Give iPads, Power Tools, and 3-D Printers to Preteens
NationSwell
22 Unbelievable Places That Really Do Exist
Top Amazing Photos
Your Support Will Save The Life Of This 5-Year-Old!
Milaap
New Law 2016: How to Turn $5,000 into $6.5 Million
Crowdability Guide
24 hours in Dubai
The Ultimate City Guide
24 hours in Dubai - part 2
Even more ideas what to do in Dubai in just 24 hours
Mauritius - The Indian Ocean Gem
Discover Mauritius, and island of white sandy beaches and turquoise waters
24 Hours in Amsterdam
Discover the pedestrian paradise of Amsterdam
Read more
Top Shared

Join the Biggest Treasure Hunt in History!
4684,5407
Barcelona on a budget
4247,74748
Majestic Morocco
3551,80836
Top Read

The Ukrainian crisis - my story
2282,378809
Tallest towers in the world (just don't look down!)
3778,21545
Most expensive hotel suites
19762,99317
About UsJobsHelpTermsContact UsAdvertiseOur Editors
* Hotel offers are subject to availability.
   
This website is property of LMNext UK Ltd, headquartered in 77 Hatton Garden, London, EC1N 8JS, United Kingdom (company registration number 9399258) a company belonging to lastminute.com group. The available services on this website are provided by lastminute.com group and its Partners.
© 2016 LMNext UK Ltd. All Rights Reserved
