 
	
   Travel Destinations&#160; 

      
       May 17, 2013 
      Editor  

                0 Comment 
      attractions in Madagascar, best spots in the country, Madagascar, rich natural diversity 

   	
    0 Flares 
    
        
    0 Flares 

    
        &#215;
     

Madagascar is an island-country surrounded by Indian Ocean off the south-eastern coast of Africa. It is the fourth largest island in the World that is the least spoilt by human intrusion. Almost the entire country is worth being explored multiples. However, that cannot be possible for tourists. So, a list of top 5 attractions in Madagascar has been chalked out hereunder for the convenience of tourists. Almost everyone recommends a visit to the following sites to tourists of this island nation.


1. Royal Hill of Ambohimanga
&#8220;The Blue City&#8221;, &#8220;The Forbidden City&#8221; and &#8220;The Holy City&#8221; are the other terms that are used to refer to Ambohimanga. It is said to be the place of origin of Malagasy race and is considered as a cultural identity. It is often missed by tourists, who think that visit to Madagascar is to experience the untouched natural diversity. The Rova Palace, which was built with cement made of egg-white and features a huge circular gate that requires the effort of forty men to roll, is alone a reason enough to visit this place.


2. Ranomafana
Famous for its lemurs, Ranomafana National Park is a rainforest that is spread over more than 41,000 hectares of land. It is in the south-eastern part of the country and is rich in biodiversity. A dozen species of lemurs are the major attraction of the forest. Besides, ample varieties of birds, lizards, etc. can be found on the island. In 1991, it was given the status of National Park to limit human interference in it.


3. Ile Sainte Marie
Once it used to be the capital of pirates like Thomas White, William Kidd, etc., now, it is one of the top 5 attractions in Madagascar. It was the major centre of piracy due to its lagoons and vegetations that make hinder navigation and sight. It lies to the East of great Red Islands and is often referred as Nosy Boraha. Diving, fishing, surfing and whale watching are the famous aquatic activities while beaches are occupied for skin-tanning.


4. Tsingy De Bemaraha
In 1990, UNESCO included Tsingy de Bemaraha into the list of World Heritage Sites due to its mangrove forests, specific wildlife population and unique karst limestone rock formation. The southern side of the place is a National park that is open to people while the northern part is a strictly cosseted natural reserve.


5. Nosy Be
The literal meaning of Nosy Be is &#8220;big island&#8221;. It is one of the most popular resorts in the world. Nosy Komba, Nosy Sakatia, Nosy Tanikely, etc. are the surrounding cities that must be explored too. The mixed scent of lemongrass, mint herbs, vanilla and ylang is the characteristic feature of this place.


