10 Top Tourist Attractions in Argentina

Argentina is a land of natural and man-made wonders. From the glaciers and sky-scraping peaks of the Andes to the vineyards of Mendoza and the bustle of Buenos Aires, there's so much to see in this dynamic and incomparably unique country.

There are many reasons why Argentina is a top destination for tourists. It has the largest waterfalls, the highest peak in the Americas and some of the most extraordinary scenery that travelers will find anywhere. It's not just the overall excellence. It's the extreme variety of tourist attractions in Argentina that keeps visitors coming back for more.

10. Ibera Wetlands

The Ibera Wetlands are the second-largest wetlands in world after the Pantanal in Brazil. The ecological preserve is home to many iconic South American animals, including anacondas, armadillos, caimans, capybaras, howler monkeys, the ostrich-like rhea and more than 350 rare and endangered bird species. This boggy area in northern Argentina can be explored by foot, on horseback or by kayak.

9. Mendoza Wine Regions

The Mendoza wine region is considered the heart of the winemaking industry in Argentina. Located in the eastern foothills of the Andes vineyards are planted at the some of the highest altitudes in the world. The city of Mendoza is the place to base yourself if you plan to tour the vineyards. The city's wide range of tour operators also makes it a great place to organize rafting, skiing and other adventures in the nearby Andes.

8. Monte Fitz Roy

Located in southern Patagonia near the Chilean border, Monte Fitz Roy is one of the most iconic points in the Andes. This granite mountain is surrounded by glacial lakes and dramatic ice fields. The rugged terrain and sheer rock faces are beloved by mountain climbers for the extreme challenge and by photographers for the extreme beauty. Those who don't know the name may recognize its sharp silhouette from the logo of the clothing brand Patagonia. It was first climbed in 1952 by French alpinists Lionel Terray and Guido Magnone.

7. Staying on an Estancia

Dozens of estancias, or rural estates that were once the private getaways of wealthy families have opened their doors to the public. Many of these country hotels offer a día de campo (country day) tha's ideal for day-trippers. After breakfast visitors typically follow the estancia's resident gaucho into the fields for a morning horse ride. Then it's back to the farmhouse for a barbecue and a quick hammock siesta before hitting the trails again.

6. Beagle Channel

The Beagle Channel is a strait in the Tierra del Fuego Archipelago, in the extreme south of Argentina. The channel is one of the three navigable passages around South America, the other ones are the Straits of Magellan to the north, and the open ocean Drake Passage to the south. A boat trip is the best way to view the Beagle Channel, with attractions such as the sea-lion colony at Isla de los Lobos, and Isla de Pájaros.

5. Valdes Peninsula

This remote Patagonian peninsula is an excellent place to see a phenomenal variety of marine mammals. Depending on the time of year, the peninsula attracts a great number of penguins, sea lions, seals and orcas. Whales can be found in the waters located between the Valdes Peninsula and the Patagonian mainland between May and December. Visitors may also spot foxes, guanacos, rheas, maras, shorebirds and other endemic species on the sparsely populated landmass. The peninsula's varied geography supports many colonies of protected animals. This diversity makes it one of the best destinations in South America for viewing endemic wildlife.

4. Caminito

Located in the La Boca neighborhood, Caminito is one of the most photographed parts of Buenos Aires. This bohemian street museum is filled with colorful houses, shops, cafes and quirky statues. The area celebrates Italian immigrants who arrived in Argentina in the 1800s. This foreign influence is alive and well in this thriving area where artists sell paintings, music fills the air and performers dance the tango as immigrants did centuries ago.

3. Bariloche

San Carlos de Bariloche is a city on the foothills of the Andes known for its Swiss-like atmosphere and its chocolate shops. The city with its surrounding mountains and lakes is famous for skiing but is also a great destination for sight-seeing, water sports, trekking and climbing. Many travelers combine a visit to Bariloche with touring through the Andean Lakes area and in particular along the Road of the Seven Lakes.

2. Perito Moreno Glacier

The Perito Moreno Glacier is an enormous glacier located in the Los Glaciares National Park. It is one of the most important tourist attractions in Argentina due to its size and accessibility. It is less than two hours by bus from El Calafate while viewing platforms and trails make the visit and the observation easy and pleasant. Boat tours are also a popular way of seeing the Perito Moreno Glacier and many other glaciers and places in the National Park Los Glaciares.

1. Iguazu Falls

Iguazú Falls is the crown jewel of Iguazú National Park, which is located in the northeastern corner of the country near the borders of Paraguay and Brazil. This is among the largest and most majestic waterfalls in the world. It's taller than Niagara Falls and nearly twice as wide. The falls and surrounding jungles can be viewed by foot and from observation decks that are ideal for photographing the torrents of water that pour through the Devil's Throat.
