10 popular places to visit in Argentina


Argentina as one of the major countries in the southern part of the American continent turned out to store a variety of stunning natural beauty. Some landscapes in Argentina became tourist attraction that always brings a lot of tourists. No wonder Argentina has become one of the tourist destinations in the America continent. For those of you who are planning to visit Argentina, below are 10 popular places to visit in Argentina:


10 popular places to visit in Argentina


1. Buenos Aires


One of the most unusual locations in Argentina is Buenos Aires. Buenos Aires is a city that never really sleep and offering things that are countless to do and see such as learning and watching tango dance.


Buenos Aires


2. Bariloche


Bariloche region, along with Seven Lakes, is a mountainous region in western Argentina which has skiing, trekking, and mountain together with Shope, sweets, caf&#233;s and chocolate shops. Classic climate of this area is mixed well with exotic locations to deliver a truly memorable retreat.


Bariloche


3. Cordoba


Cordoba is the second largest city in Argentina. Cordoba contains a number of buildings were left over from Spanish colonialism, such as the church and part of the oldest universities in the country. This university has attracted people from all over the country for hundreds of years, and partly as a result of this, Cordoba is often regarded as one of the most culturally rich cities in the country as well. This objective is also full of things to do such as taking golf courses, or you can take a trip, horse biking and much more.


Church in Cordoba


4. Mendoza


For travelers who prefer a little snow during their adventures in Argentina, they will visit Mendoza. Although the access to the Andes mountain is a quite easy, Mendoza has activities such as horseback riding, hiking, and rafting as well as more cultural activities such as wine tasting (for abundant number of wineries in the area).


Mendoza


5. Andes Mountain


Speaking about Andes, these mountains are a major feature of South America and offer a lot of things for visitors to do. Whether it is skiing down one of the slopes, climbing Aconcagua (the highest mountain in the entire chain), or just flying over them to see, Andes remains accessible and attractive as part of any vacation.


Andes Mountain


6. Mount Fitz Roy


Fitz Roy is a very beautiful mountain with a typical mountain view covered by snow. The mountain is located near the village of El Chalten in Patagonia southern region, precisely on the border between Argentina and Chile. The mountain is very famous among trekkers or nature lovers.


Mount Fitz Roy


7. Perito


Perito is an expanse of amazing glaciers attraction. It is located in Los Glaciares National Park in the province of Santa Cruz, Argentina. Perito is one of three glaciers that grow in the region of Patagonia. Perito Moreno glacier stretches the width of 5 km and has a height of about 74 meters above the surface of the Argentina Lake. The depth chunks of ice that exist in this glacier reach 170 meters.


Perito


8. The Salinas Grandes


The salt desert Salinas Grandes is located in Córdoba and Santiago del Estero province in Sierra, Argentina. The Salinas Grandes covers an area of 3200 m (8290 km). This area is an important natural resource for sodium and potassium mining industry in Argentina. Visiting this area will certainly be a new experience for you because it can not be found in other countries.


The Salinas Grandes


9. Northwest Argentina: Salta & Jujuy


Salta province is known for salt plains and Calchaqui Valleys, with stunning red rock formations. Nearby there is Jujuy province which also offers some incredible views of natural, archaeological sites and cultural exploration.


Salta & Jujuy


10. El Chalten


Recognized as a superb hiking site, El Chalten is a paradise for nature lovers who want to explore the beautiful landscape of Patagonia. Located just three hours from El Calafate, visitors can take a bus from Calafate that is offering views along the way.


El Chalten
