18 Of The Most Incredible Places To Visit In Argentina

If you are planning to go on a trip to Argentina, then you need to think very carefully about what you are going to visit during your stay because this massive federal republic of South America includes a countless number of attractions and landmarks. To help you in your endeavor, we created this list containing 18 of the most stunning things to see and experience during your adventure to this incredible land. Whether you're looking to take in the sights from the majestic peaks of Mount Fitz Roy or you prefer to spend your time surrounded by the urban wonders of Buenos Aires, you will definitely find something to your liking if you keep on reading.

Iguazu Falls

Visiting one of the new 7 wonders of the world is an experience that should be enjoyed at least once in a lifetime, and fortunately, Igazu Falls fits in this highly exclusive category. This amazing natural landmark can be found at the border between Argentina and Brazil, and it is well known for its imposing size and beauty. Iguazu Falls is actually comprised of about 275 smaller cascades and falls that flaunt a combined flow of about 343 423 gallons per second. Visiting this extraordinary place is always a great idea no matter the season.

Ischigualasto Provincial Park

Also known commonly as Valle de la Luna (Valley of the Moon), the Ischigualasto Provincial Park can be found to the north-east of San Juan Province and was established in 1971. Covering a total area of 233 square miles, this park became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2000 and boasts with an incredible landscape that comprises a series of spectacular rock formations and cliffs. Highlights include the "Sphynx" and the "Mushroom" rock formations, which were eroded by the natural force of the wind over the years.

Perito Moreno Glacier

Highly accessible and stunningly beautiful, the Perito Moreno Glacier is located within the Los Glaciares National Park and represents one of the most incredible tourist attractions in Argentina. During your visit, you would be able to feast your eyes on the magnificence of this glacier thanks to a generous number of viewing platforms and walking trails. Other scenic attractions of the National Park can also be seen by going on a boat tour, which allows guests to admire the natural beauty of the surrounding environment from a unique perspective.

Mount Fitz Roy

Located right on the border between Argentina and Chile, Mount Fitz Roy is one of the most spectacular natural landmarks of this amazing country. With a height of no less than 11,073 feet, this mountain is a part of the Southern Patagonian Ice Field and is probably one of the most photographed mountains in Argentina due to its somewhat unusual shape. First climbed in 1952, Mount Fitz Roy is now a very popular destination for hiking enthusiasts who wish to test their resolve and physical prowess.

Pacific Gallery

Shopping enthusiasts would definitely enjoy spending their time and their money at the renowned Pacific Gallery of Argentina's capital of Buenos Aires. Sketched out in 1889 by Roland Le Vacher and Emilio Agrelo, the Beaux Arts building that currently houses the Pacific Gallery was initially used for a famous shop named Argentine Bon Marché. The buildin's fate was to become abandoned eventually, but it was restored and reopened for business in 1991 by Juan Carlos López and Associates. This incredible building is now known for its amazing frescos that were created by reputable artists such as Lino Enea Spilimbergo, Juan Carlos Castagnino and Antonio Berni,

Bariloche

Known widely for its picturesque landscapes and delicious chocolate, the city of San Carlos de Bariloche is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the Andes. The city is also a very well known destination for skiing, and thanks to its convenient location in close proximity to the Nahuel Huapi Lake, it is quite perfect for practicing water sports. This city is a part of the Nahuel Huapi National Park and was named after the Mapudungun word "Vuriloche", which translates to "people from behind the mountain".

Valdes Peninsula

Nature enthusiasts would find it worthwhile to visit Argentina's Valdes Peninsula, since this fantastic heaven on Earth is teeming with life and natural beauty. This place is the home of animals such as sea lions, elephant seals and even lovely penguins. If you dare to venture further into the waters that stretch between the peninsula itself and the Patagonian mainland, then you'll be able to reward your eyes with stunning sightings of orcas and whales.

Calchaquí Valley

With its varied landscape and numerous rivers, the Calchaquí Valley is a perfect place to visit by those who appreciate the natural beauty of nature and wish to enjoy it in its entire splendor. This valley includes anything from mountain deserts to lush subtropical forests and promises a true feast for the senses for those who are willing to make the trip to its most notable attractions. These include the valley of the Santa María River, Lerma Valley and Valle Encantado.

Buenos Aires

Naturally, many of those who are going to visit Argentina are going to spend some time in its famous capital of Buenos Aires. This thriving metropolis is famous for its nightlife and outstanding dining opportunities, but many tourists actually visit it in order to gaze upon the magnificence of its architecture. It's also worth noting that Buenos Aires is one of the 20th largest cities in the world, and it is famous for its incredible quality of life.

El Chaltén

If you are planning to visit El Chaltén, then you better get ready for a relatively long trip, because this particular town in Argentina is nowhere near an airport and can only be reached via a 3-hour bus ride. However, once you do get there you'll find that your entire trip was well worth the effort, because this amazing place boasts with picturesque sceneries that can hardly be matched in the world. Hiking enthusiasts and climbers would undoubtedly enjoy taking on Cerro Fitz Roy, but there are numerous other opportunities for fun at El Chaltén, such as savoring a delicious glass of homemade beer, for example.

Galileo Galilei Planetarium

The extraordinary Planetario of Buenos Aires can be found within the city's Palermo district and is currently one of the most appreciated tourist destinations in the country. The planetarium boasts with a heritage that dates back to 1958 and operates within a stunning building of 5 floors. The actual planetarium can be found within the main semispherical dome and features over 100 projectors in total. During your visit, you would be able to admire the unmatched beauty of the planets of our solar system as well as countless stars and constellations.

Ushuaia

Widely regarded as the southernmost city in the world, Ushuaia is a very important tourist destination in Argentina, but it comes with a diverse and interesting past. This amazing city used to be a penal colony as well as a missionary base, but its current attractions are based on numerous restaurants, casinos and fine hotels. Due to its relative proximity to Antarctica, Ushuaia is often used as a base for trips to the frozen continent.

Mundo Marino

Mundo Marino is undoubtedly the largest aquarium in Argentina, which is probably why it enjoys such great popularity and appreciation. This unique establishment amazes its numerous guests with a series of special shows such as "Show de Orca", "Estado Del Mar" featuring dolphins and "Bahía de Lobos" that brings sea lions into the spotlight. Another very important attraction is Sharmenk -- a male orca that resides at Mundo Marino ever since it was captured in 1992.

Mar Del Plata

Those who enjoy catching a bit of sun and swimming in the glistening waters of the Atlantic Ocean can always visit Mar Del Plata. This lively beach resort city is one of the largest and most popular of its kind in Argentina, and so it features one of the best-maintained and cleanest beaches in the country. Millions of tourists and locals visit this wonderful place each year in order to kick back, get rid of stress and enjoy the ocean breeze without a care in the world.

Quebrada de Humahuaca

Quebrada de Humahuaca can be found in Jujuy Province and represents a very long ravine that soars to an altitude of 6,560 feet above sea level. With a total length of 93 miles, this ravine is situated in close proximity to the border between Argentina and Bolivia. What makes its appearance so staggering is owed to a series of spectacular rock formations and multicolored hills that have the potential to take your breath away at a glance. As a base for visiting this amazing natural landmark, we recommend the nearby city of Salta.

Cordoba

If you want to visit another large city in Argentina aside from Buenos Aires for a change, then Cordoba is definitely your best bet. This scenic place is encircled on all sides by imposing mountains and superb valleys, but visiting Cordoba is usually about admiring its fine selection of Spanish colonial buildings, many of which are found at the city's core. The Jesuit Block in particular includes a splendid display of churches and old palaces, so if you are interested in the history of this old and beautiful city, you can be sure that you can satisfy your curiosity in full.

Patagonia

Patagonia can be found in southern Argentina and currently represents one of the country's top tourist destinations. Ever since the beginning of the 20th century, Patagonia's economy started to rely heavily on tourism. Some of the most important highlights of Patagonia as far as tourism is concerned are the Perito Moreno glacier, the Argentine Lake District and the lovely Ushuaia that we described earlier. If you include Patagonia on your places to visit during your trip to Argentina, you'll definitely have plenty of stories to tell when you go back home.

Mendoza

Argentina's famous wines are mostly made at the equally renowned Mendoza wine region, which includes some of the highest vineyards in the world. These vineyards are found in the Andes and are often visited by connoisseurs and enthusiasts that are looking to learn about the winemaking process and about the climate conditions that allow the resulting beverage to boast such a high quality and delicious taste. Furthermore, since Mendoza is so close to the Andes, visitors can also engage in numerous other activities such as skiing and rafting.
