 

        Best Travel Sites for Visitors of Ghana
        

                    	Top Travel Attractions in Ghana                        
                    

                    Date 29.12.2014

                    
                            	                                Article in pdf
	                                                            
                            
                                                        Whether you are returning for a repeat trip or you are a first time visitor to Ghana, there are plenty of things to do and many places to visit in this West African country. According to statistics, over 1,000,000 tourists each year visit Ghana. This is mainly because the country is a popular destination for nature and wildlife enthusiasts due to the favorable tropical climate. Here are 10 attractions sites you won&#8217;t want to miss once you visit Ghana.


1. Kejetia Market


Kejetia Market which is one of the largest markets in West Africa is located in the center of Kumasi. The market is a shopping hub that has over 11,000 stalls and 40,000 workers and sells items such as Ashanti sandals, glass beads, food stuffs, shoes and jewelry. If you need to visit this market for shopping, you can go with a guide who can provide you with tips on bargaining and assist you to find obscure goods.


2. Cape Coast Castle


The whitewashed Cape Coast Castle is a historical wonder that is located at the heart of Cape Coast. When you visit this place, you will have a chance to see slave quarters and dungeons that contrast greatly with the grand governor&#8217;s bedroom. The Cape Coast Castle also has a museum that provides more details on the history of Ghana, slave trade, and Akan culture.


3. Kakum National Park


Kakum National Park is a great place to check out if you are interested in Ghana&#8217;s wildlife. The National Park is located within the rainforest where there is canopy walkway suspended approximately 100 feet above the ground. The Kakum National Park features the colobus monkey, over 300 species of birds, endangered forest elephants and approximately 600 butterfly species.


4. The Kumasi Voodoo Experience


If you are looking forward to have an exciting tour in Ghana, it is good to consider the unique experience of the world of Voodoo in Kumasi. Once you visit this place, you will have a chance to watch a voodoo dance completed by costumed dancers and ritualistic chant. In addition, you will have a chance to visit the voodoo shrine where you will meet the local priests who will clearly explain the dances, rituals, age-old spells and other practices and traditions.


5. Boabeng-Fiema Monkey Sanctuary


Boabeng-Fiema Monkey Sanctuary is a small community-protected forest that features two different monkey species &#8211; the Lowe&#8217;s Mona monkey and the black and white colobus monkey. Both species are held by the area&#8217;s local villagers as sacred.


6. Nzulezu Stilted Village


Nzulezu Stilted Village is another unique place to visit during the rainy season when the water levels around the area are high. The unique village lies in the middle of the Amansuri wetlands and is seated on stilts. The area is also rich in birds and other wildlife.


7. Ghanaian Festivals


Consider Ghanaian festivals if you are interested in knowing more about the Ghana culture. The festivals feature drumming, dancing and feasting. Each region in Ghana has its own events to remember the ancestors, to affirm its tribal values and to prepare for another year.


8. Mole National Park


The Mole National Park is one of the well-equipped and largest game reserves where visitors can see spotted hyenas, lions, elephants, and antelopes like the bushbuck, roan and waterbuck. Visitors can explore the park on foot or can use a four wheel drive but must be accompanied by a tour guide who will help them to navigate through the thick forest.


9. Accra


Accra is Ghana&#8217;s capital city. Here, visitors have a chance to visit the National Museum where they can see the Ghanaian art. The first time visitors can learn more about the city by travelling around the Independence Square. In addition, the Centre for National Culture is a good place to carry out your shopping of kente cloth and other crafts.


10. Busua


When you visit Ghana, consider the coastal village of Busua if you are interested in beach adventures. The coastal village features a popular surfing scene and a great seafood restaurant. Busua runs for approximate nine miles and is lined with isolated and rustic resorts.

 
                        Related articles
                    
 
                                DARK TOURISM: DISCOVER GHANA&#8217;S SLAVE CASTLES
			            	
                                GHANA LURES TOURISTS WITH CHOCOLATE
			            
                        	
                                DESTINATION/ Ghana Connected to Nature
			            	
                                Ghana to Attract More Tourists in Cultural and Business Travel Sectors 
			            
                        
                        Comments
                    
 
            		Add Comment
                    

	                    Navigation Bar
                    

                                Go to magazine archive
                                Go to current issue
                                                                Go to the current category
                            
                            
                	.TR Advertisement

                    
        Explore .TR digital network
        
         
                .TR Home Page 
                .TR News 
                .TR Directories 
                                    .TR Tourism Online Marketing 
                                            .TR BUSINESS 
                                                                   
            
                    Home Page                                
                
            
                    Daily Travel News
                    
                    Weekly Travel News
                    
                    Top 10's Travel News 
                      
                    Tourism Industry Magazine
                    
                    Press Release Wire						
                
            
                    Industry Links   
                    Events Calendar   
                    
                    Tour Operators                               
                
            
                                                    International Tourism Advertising                              
                                                            Web PR / Online Tourism Communication                              
                                                            International SEO in Tourism                              
                                                            Tourism Video Marketing                              
                                                    
                
                                                    About Us                              
                                                            F.A.Q.                              
                                                            Terms &amp; Conditions                              
                                                            Site Map                              
                                                            Contact Us                              
                                                    
                
    TRDN: e-Network within the Global Tourism Industry - think globally, perform locally
    

            TRDN WEBSITES
            
            
            .TR e-Marketing
            .TR Advertising

                .TR PR Communication

                .TR International SEM

                .TR FREE Newsletter

                .TR RSS Channels


            .TR Business
            About us

                F.A.Q.

                Site Map

                Contact us


        &#169; 2013 Tourism-review.com. All rights reserved.    


