 

                	Tourism in Morocco - Hot spot for every visitor

                    <em>No one would like to miss out on such a culturally rich and environmentally friendly country. Morocco is a hot tourist destination for many people from every corner of the globe. The government has made a conscious effort to make tourism the number one industry in the country.   </em>


                    The Moroccan economy has been growing steadily for the last few years. It has been one of the most politically stable countries and has been working hard to boost the tourism industry, which has a high potential for growth. Morocco is called the land of mystery and a place worth a visit. The sun shines bright nearly 300 days of the years and makes for a good setting for some great vacations visiting deserts, beaches and snow capped mountains. There is such diversity you can hardly want to miss anything. The strong culture lures one and all to explore the colorful lives of the Moroccans.


                    Under the guidance of King Mohammed VI and his plan of Vision 2010, the Moroccan government is taking great efforts to improve infrastructure that is needed to support about 10 million visitors by 2010. Efforts are being taken to market Morocco as a cheap and exotic location yet safer for all tourists. Domestic tourism is also being popularized. The government is planning and executing good projects that are aimed at improving the rail and road links. The open skies policy has also allowed more airlines to come in into the country. The airports are being upgraded or new ones build to match the international standard and support larger number of air traffic. With improved relations with Algeria, the borders have been opened and air services between the two countries have resumed. The Algerian tourists are growing in numbers with tourists coming in to even visit family and friends in Morocco. There are popular ports like Casablanca and Tangier that often have cruise ships visiting. The road link as well as the rail link is also good between the major cities and tourist destinations making it the most popular mode of transport.  


                    Morocco is popular for its pristine beaches rich in natural beauty. You can visit them the whole year round with little to worry, as the climate is fresh and pleasant. Tourists from France, Spain, Britain, Germany, Netherlands, etc love the large beaches resort on the long Atlantic coast. Agadir is one such town that is the favorite of many tourists. Moroccans living abroad form a large chunk of the tourists who visit Morocco every year. With its nearness to Spain and popularity with the French people, these tourists make for about 20% of its visitors. Though earlier beaches were the major tourist attractions, the modern tourist industry has also been capitalizing on ancient Roman and Islamic history. Most of the tourists visiting Morocco visit it to glimpse the cultural heritage of the country. The popular regions are Tangier, Agadir, Marrakech, Casablanca, Imperial cities, Quarzazate and Tarfaya. 


                    The Atlas mountains pull the adventure lovers to it. They have such beauty hidden in its fold that you cannot leave Morocco without visiting it. The tow of Agadir is known for its coastal resorts and the beautiful beaches but it also forms the base for tours to the Atlas Mountains. Growth in adventure tourism in the Atlas and Rif Mountains has been stupendous. These mountains provide exciting trekking as well as mountain biking opportunities. There are great trails for hiking and you can go hours on end simply taking in the beautiful flora and fauna in the valleys. The diversity and the existence of the exotic variety of flora and fauna make it a nature lover&#8217;s paradise.


                    The opportunities to explore are many. A visit to Morocco cannot be complete without a camel ride to the deserts. Desert tourism is also being developed. You can have great memories of the deserts as you lie on the sands watching the twinkling stars above. It is simply a great experience. As you visit the cities and towns of Morocco you will be amazed at the culture and beauty of the Kasba and the Medina. The castles, gardens and the local markets are a must visit during your stay in Morocco. There is so much to see; nature reserves, sparkling rivers, ancient buildings, handicrafts, colored carpets to name a few. There are several museums that can give a glimpse to the country past glory. 


                    You have to visit Morocco to believe and live the beauty of the country&#8217;s cultural heritage. There is so much to explore that one trip can hardly be enough to catch up with everything.


                        	CITIES

                            
                                        Agadir
                                        Chefchaouen
                                        Ouarzazate
                                        Tangier
                                        Al Hoceima
                                        Marrakech
                                        Meknes
                                    
                                
                                        Ouezzane
                                        Taza
                                        Casablanca
                                        Nador
                                        Oujda
                                        Rabat
                                        Tetouan
                                    
					             
                        	INFORMATION ON MOROCCO

                            
                                	Facts and Figures
                                    Landscape of Morocco
                                    Climate of Morocco
                                    Plant Increase and Animals
                                    Moroccan Population
                                    Language and Religion
                                    
                                    Economy of Morocco
                                    Tourism in Morocco
                                    Floor Treasures and Industry
                                    Agriculture and Fishery
                                    History of Morocco
                                    King Mohammed VI
                                
                            
            Toerisme in Marokko            

      
                    	Morocco
                    	
                    
            	About us |
                Contact us
                

				&#169; Copyright Marokko Info
            

