 
		
Ethiopia Tourism, Tourist Attractions


Tweet
   

Ethiopia Tourism (credit)


<em>Ethiopia, the land of Queen of Sheba is rich on African history and attractions like Lake Tana, National Parks, Blue Nile and ancient cities like Gondar and Lalibela make Ethiopia one of the countries to visit in Africa.</em>


Ethiopia Tourism &#8211; Top 10
Below are the major tourist attractions and reasons why people visit the country.


1. Addis Ababa
Addis Ababa is the capital of Ethiopia and the largest city in Ethiopia. The city hosts numerous continental and international organizations including the African Union, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the Federation of African Societies of Chemistry and Horn of Africa Press Institute and as such, it is renowned as the political capital of Africa.


2. Lalibela
Lalibela, a historical town in Ethiopia, is well-known for monolithic rock-cut churches and lots of pilgrimages. The town is located in the Semien Wollo Zone of the Amhara ethnic division at 2,500 meters above sea level. It is one of the holiest cities in Ethiopia.


3. Gondar
Gondar (the Camelot of Africa), a city and separate woreda in Ethiopia, was formerly the capital of the historic Begemder Province and as such, sometimes, Begemder is referred to as Gondar. The city is situated in the Semien Gondar Zone of the Amhara Region. The modern Gondar city is a popular tourist place for its many scenic ruins in the Royal Enclosure including Fasilides castle, Dawit&#8217;s Hall, Mentewab&#8217;s Castle and Qusquam complex.


4. Jinka
Jinka, a market town and the capital of the Debub Omo Zone, is situated in the hills north of the Tama Plains, Southern Ethiopia. The town has an elevation of about 1490 meters above sea level. Jinka is home to the South-Omo Museum and Research Center funded by Germany.


5. Debark
Debark is the neighboring town to the Semien Mountains National Park in northern Ethiopia. It is one of the popular tourist destinations in Ethiopia mainly because of the Simien Mountains National Park. &#160;It is a place to enjoy a variety of activities including trekking in the Bale and Simien Mountains National Park, visiting the Rift Valley lakes and enjoying white water rafting at the Omo River.


6. Awasa
Awasa is a city located on the shores of Lake Awasa in the Great Rift Valley, Ethiopia. The city is home to Hawassa University, Awasa Adventist College, the St. Gabriel Church, the Awassa Kenema Stadium and a major market. Fishing is the most important local industry.


7. Lake Tana
Lake Tana, the source of the Blue Nile and the largest lake in Ethiopia, is situated in Amhara Region. The lake has many islands and it supports a large fishing industry. Lake Tana supports few invertebrates such as 15 species of mollusks, numerous wetland birds and softshell turtle.


8. Axum
Axum is a city and woreda in northern Ethiopia, and once was the capital of the kingdom of Axum. It has been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site because of its historical features. The major monuments in the town are stele, a symbol of the Ethiopian culture.


9. Blue Nile Falls
The Blue Nile Falls, a waterfall on the Blue Nile River located in Ethiopia, is known as one of the best-known tourist attractions of Ethiopia. The Falls separates the ecology of Lake Tana from the ecology of the rest of the Nile, and this isolation has played a role in the development of the endemic fauna of the lake.


10. Bale Mountains
Bale Mountains (Urgoma Mountains) are a variety of mountains in the Oromia Region, Ethiopia, south of the Awash River. These include Tullu Demtu, and Mount Batu. The Weyib River rises in these mountains east of Goba. Bale Mountains are home to many endemic animals including the Ethiopian wolf, reptile, lion and leopard.


Tags: Africa Tourism


Related to: "Ethiopia Tourism, Tourist Attractions"

        		
                    Egypt Tourism, Tourist Attractions &#8594; 
                    

