 
	
		Sharing's caring! Share this awesome article with your friends, you know u wanna...
0 3 20 9 0 

		
		Ethiopia is one of Africa's hidden backpacking gems; this place propelled itself to one of my top 5 countries to visit. It's nothing short of amazing. It has a magnificent cultural heritage, seven sites of which are included in the UNESCO world heritage list. The rocky mountains, lakes, rivers and diverse grassland ecosystem account for Ethiopia's uniqueness. Ethiopia's historic sites and tourist attractions are wide ranging from natural stunning beauty to some of the most awesome man-made religious sights imaginable.


This place is cheap as chips, can keep you occupied for weeks, the food is delicious, the people friendly and the climate is tip-top ; what's not to love?! Check out the top 5 sights not to miss in this captivating country:


Top 5 must sees in Ethiopia:


1) Danakil Depression: The Danakil depression shares the Eritrean border on the east of the Tigrian highlands in the North East of Ethiopia. It has been officially listed as one of the hottest and driest area on earth having an average temperature of 35+ degree Celsius. It is an impressive area of geological fascination, a place dotted with active volcanoes, hot springs, lava lake, salted basins and above all lunar landscapes. It is a vast unpopulated region that lies below the sea level, it's the lowest point in all of Africa and the second lowest in the world (second to the Dead Sea in Jordan/Israel. Visiting here is no walk in the park, you need to book a separate tour or drive yourself and thanks to the harshness of it's atmosphere, people have actually died here when coming unprepared - makes me wanna go even more!


Danakil Depression
2) Lalibela: UNBELIEVABLE! Why this is not one of the new wonders of the world, I'll never know but it should be. It is a medieval settlement that lies perched in the midst of an extensive rock church complex. There are 11 incredible rock-hewn monolithic churches which were built by King Lalibela way back in the late 12<sup>th</sup> or early 13<sup>th</sup> century. The structures are noted for their artistic splendor and each of the buildings has distinctive architectural designs. The curches are actually dug into the ground, and St George's cross has become its most famous of all sites - truly, truly breathtaking. This needs to feature on everybody's bucket list, it's that good.


Me at Lalibela
3) Harar: It is an ancient holy city which dates back to about 1520., and the oldest Islamic city in the Continent. The city is famed for its ancient buildings and impressive city walls. Harar has approximately 99 mosques and it oozes old school islamic culture. A real highlight in Harar are the 'wild' hyenas though. At dusk you can see the local men attracting wild hyenas in the city. For generations these hyenas have scavanged within the city walls at night, through this they have become 'friendly' with a group of men who feed them and allow you to feed them, a very scary experience but one that will keep Ethiopia in your memory for a long time to come.


Stupidly feeding the hyenas in Harar
4)The Rift Valley: The Rift Valley is endowed with numerous hot springs, beautiful lakes, and a plethora of crazy, African wildlife. The passage has a chain of seven lakes and each of the seven lakes has unique feature of its own. For animal loves, the Rift valley is paradise - the place is crawling with African wildlife. The hot springs here are highly recognized for their therapeutic purposes, and people come from all over the country to bathe in them - make sure you join them at some point throughout your time here!


5) The Blue Nile Falls: Another place not to be missed place in Ethiopia is the Blue Nile, the longest river in Africa. It is locally known as Tis Isat, is 400m wide and 45m deep. When the water falls into a gorge, it creates the most spectacular view, a sight to rival Niagara falls even - the Blue Nile Falls. From Bahar Dar, the Blue Nile falls takes around 90 minutes to reach - you can take a local bus and then trek another 30 mins or so, but it's well worth the effort. This place is very cool.


This is just scratcing the surface of what Ethiopia has on offer, but with these 5 sights ticked off your list then you'll be leaving Ethiopia with the same opinion as me! Get yourself there quick, before the tourist hordes hear about it! Happy Travels.


For a further insight into backpacking in Ethiopia, regarding costs etc, check this out on my other Ethiopian article.



		
		Posted in: Adventure, Blog, East Africa, Ethiopia, Off the Beaten Path		Tagged: top 5		Sharing's caring! Share this awesome article with your friends, you know u wanna...
0 3 20 9 0 

					
Related Articles on One Step 4WardFeeding Hyenas in Harar, Ethiopia &#8211; MOUTH TO MOUTHA Backpackers Guide to EthiopiaBackpacking in Somalia &#8211; How To Get ThereTop 5 Things To See in North Korea


			         Previous Post 
Sharing prostitutes in Bangladesh
		        

			        		   			 Next Post
Motivational Monday: &#8220;But I&#8217;ll be jeopardising my future if I do that&#8221;
		        

												Tade says: 					


								October 28, 2016 at 4:12 pm							
						
											
					Great info! thanks. we  welcome world because we want see beautiful world in Ethiopia!


				Reply
			

												allie says: 					


								April 6, 2016 at 2:13 am							
						
											
					that sounds great ps whats ur last name mike


				Reply
			

												Raina says: 					


								August 6, 2015 at 5:22 am							
						
											
					Loved this article on Ethiopia! Spent last summer there volunteering an it was AMAZING. Great food, great people, great sites. If you&#8217;re considering it, GO!


				Reply
			

												Marius says: 					


								February 15, 2015 at 11:25 pm							
						
											
					Hi Johnny


I am being seconded for work to Addis Ababa for 4 months and had my doubts until I read your blog on Ethiopia. Now I am really looking forward to exploring the country over the next four months as well as indulging in the local cuisine and coffee. 


Cheers

Marius


				Reply
			

												Gene says: 					


								January 4, 2015 at 2:01 am							
						
											
					Great blog. However, I wanr to make your list to seven. Ras Dashen nountain on the north west and Sof Oumer caves in the south will well fit into your list.


				Reply
			

												Enoch Castleberry says: 					


								July 12, 2013 at 9:36 pm							
						
											
					Just discovered your blog. I&#8217;m going to Ethiopia on a whim in a couple days and haven&#8217;t prep&#8217;d at all. Thanks for all the info and suggestions etc. I really wish i had time to get out to Harar!!! Feeding a hyena with your mouth sounds unforgettable!!!!


				Reply
			

												Jem says: 					


								November 28, 2012 at 12:59 pm							
						
											
					Ive always wanted to go.. im very spiritually attached to Ethiopia.. but now after your info and pictures.. i KNOw its going to be a life-changing experience.. wow thank you..


				Reply
			

												Johnny says: 					


								December 2, 2012 at 7:12 pm							
						
											
					maybe the coolest country in the whole world to travel in!


				Reply
			

												Maura says: 					


								August 1, 2011 at 6:42 pm							
						
											
					This post makes me want to go there so, so much.  It looks absolutely awesome!


				Reply
			

												Johnny says: 					


								September 1, 2011 at 9:49 pm							
						
											
					it&#8217;s a beautiful country, maybe the most beautiful I have ever visited!


				Reply
			

												I Hart Travel says: 					


								August 1, 2011 at 10:32 am							
						
											
					So the Ethiopian women didn&#8217;t make the list &#128578;


The Danakil Depression looks interesting. Was it a challenging journey getting there? What items would you need to have to be properly prepared? How did you dress for it?


Another great post!


				Reply
			

												Johnny says: 					


								September 1, 2011 at 9:50 pm							
						
											
					the country as a whole is pretty easy Fidel, sun screen and sun glasses and you&#8217;re all set &#128539;


				Reply
			

												TesfaTT says: 					


								May 14, 2014 at 4:23 pm							
						
											
					Johnny I like your post about Ethiopia that is great .  My name is Tesfa and i am working for private tour company . If you are interested we will give you more information and support your next travel to Ethiopia because we need more real information about Ethiopia.


				Reply
			
	Motivational Monday; 21 Day Challenge Body Transformation


	Flying to Every Country in the World


		How to Start a Travel Blog; A&#160;5 Step Guide to How You Can Start&#160;a Travel Blog in Less Than&#160;30 minutes&#8230; Blogging ch...	

	
		I have 4 countries left on my journey to every country in the world &#8211; Oman, Yemen, Norway and Saudi Arabia. Yemen...	

	
		Mortgage free in my 20s, my property has almost doubled in value,&#160;and no matter what happens, I&#8217;ll always have a r...	

	
		I know, I know the title of this article is a big shout, but wait until you see the pics and hear about this epic advent...	

	
		My mum is 60 something, she was diagnosed with Parkinson&#8217;s disease 3 years ago, but she loves to visit me as I tra...	

	
		As we grow up, we&#8217;re taught to think a certain way &#8211; both explicitly and implicitly. It&#8217;s so hard to f...	

	
