  Famous Ethiopian Landmarks
      Travel Tips   
   Joanne Thomas, studioD   
 
    Related Articles What Type of Landforms Cover Ethiopia? Famous African Landmarks 10 Must-See Landmarks in Denmark Famous German Buildings and Landmarks    Ethiopia is one of the world's most ancient independent nations and one of the earliest places ever inhabited by humans. Its ancient cities and monuments are well-preserved relics of a 3,000-year-old culture, while famous archeological sites continue to reveal traces of the beginnings of human existence. Ethiopia's famous landmarks include natural wonders, with some of Africa's highest mountains, most active volcanoes, lowest points and highest temperatures found there.

 
  Aksum One of Ethiopia's UNESCO World Heritage Sites, the ruins of the ancient city of Aksum mark the heart of the once-powerful kingdom of Aksum. The remnants of Aksum, the most ancient city in Ethiopia, date from the first to the 13th centuries and include stelae (obelisks), castles, royal graves and the bath of the Queen of Sheba. The Cathedral of St. Mary of Zion, which stands on the grounds of a fourth-century church, is the holiest church in Ethiopia and is rumored to hold the Ark of the Covenant, according to the Ethiopian Tourism Commission.

 
  Semien Mountains National Park Semien Mountains National Park includes Ras Dejen, the highest mountain in Ethiopia and fourth highest in Africa at over 15,000 feet above sea level. The landscape of jagged peaks and deep valleys is protected as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Several endangered species live in the park, including the Walia Ibex, Gelada Baboon and Semien Fox.

 
  Harar Harar is a historic fortified town in eastern Ethiopia that is considered the fourth holiest city of Islam (according to UNESCO). The city walls were built between the 13th and 16th centuries. Other well-preserved historic structures include three 10th century mosques and rows of traditional townhouses that reflect African and Islamic influences. Harar has a long history as a holy city, a center for Islamic learning, a place of pilgrimage and an important trading center.

 
  Erta Ale Erta Ale is a volcano in the Afar region of northeastern Ethiopia and the hottest places on earth, according to earth scientist Dougal Jerram. It is one of only five volcanoes in the world with an active lava lake. The lake has been reported since 1906, making it the longest continuously active lava lake in the world. Surrounded by land that is below sea level, it is also one of the lowest volcanoes on the planet.

 
  Hadar Hadar is an archaeological site in the Lower Awash Valley of Ethiopia that was made famous by the 1974 discovery of "Lucy," a partial hominid skeleton. Lucy is over 3 million years old and one of the oldest, most complete and best preserved adult fossils ever discovered, according to the Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University. Some 4.4 million-year-old hominid remains have also been discovered in the region, making this Ethiopian landmark one of the most important world sites in the study of human origins.

 
  Abijatta-Shalla National Park This Ethiopian National Park contains two lakes, Abijatta and Shalla, separated by a mountain. The park is known for its abundant birdlife and scenery. Abijatta is a shallow, 46-foot-deep, alkaline lake surrounded by acacia woodlands and grassy slopes; Shalla is 853 feet deep with hot sulfurous springs bubbling around its shores. Over 400 bird species have been recorded in the park including flamingos, great white pelicans, cormorants, eagles and geese. The birds feed on Lake Abijatta, but prefer Lake Shalla as a breeding site, according to The Africa Guide.

 
    References  Ethiopian Tourism Commission: AksumUNESCO World Heritage Sites: AksumUNESCO World Heritage Sites: Semien Mountains National ParkAfrica Guide: Ethiopia ParksEthiopian Tourism Commission: Harar 
  Resources  The Africa Guide 
  About the Author  A writer of diverse interests, Joanne Thomas has penned pieces about road trips for Hyundai, children's craft projects for Disney and wine cocktails for Robert Mondavi. She has lived on three continents and currently resides in Los Angeles, where she is co-owner and editor of a weekly newspaper. Thomas holds a BSc in politics from the University of Bristol, England.

 
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  Egyptian Landmarks Landmarks Of Kenya Natural or Man-Made Landmarks in Mexico What Are the Famous Landmarks in Greece? Famous Italian Landmarks "Famous Places in Guinea, Africa"   Travel Tips Articles  The Best Time to Visit Yellowstone Park Famous Landmarks in Wales Famous Places in Chad Famous Landmarks in Madagascar Three Famous Landmarks in Uganda "Historical Landmarks of Chad, Africa" How to Buy an Open Ended Airline Ticket The Five Most Famous Landmarks in Israel 5 Famous Landmarks of Russia Private Tours of Scotland   Test Your Knowledge    Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge     Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?     Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
