  Historical Sites in Buenos Aries, Argentina
      Travel Tips   
   Jim Orrill, studioD   
 
      
  Plaza de Mayo has been a pivotal site in Argentinian history.   (Photo: Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images )  

  
   Related Articles Holidays &amp; Festivals in Argentina What Is the Climate of Argentina? What Are Argentina's Major Landforms? Zoos in Venezuela    Buenos Aires' historical sites stand as testament to events throughout Argentinean history, from its colonial era to the years following the nation's 1816 victory in its war of independence with Spain. Travelers can explore monuments to citizens who fell under state oppression as well as public squares where some of Argentina's most momentous historical events occurred. Vacationers should be aware that political demonstrations frequently occur in Buenos Aires; the U.S. State Department notes that while most remain peaceful, travelers should avoid the scene of any protest.

 
  Plaza de Mayo Plaza de Mayo (buenosaires.gov.ar) has been the site of celebrations, demonstrations and pivotal political events since its establishment in 1580. It was the site of the initial 1810 uprising that sparked Argentina's six-year war for independence and the gathering point for protestors in 1945 who successfully pressured the government into releasing Juan Peron from prison. Argentineans elected Peron president in 1946 and 1951, and he returned from exile to serve a third term in 1973. Plaza de Mayo is also the location of many prominent Buenos Aires landmarks, including the Cabildo and the Piramide de Mayo, a pyramidal monument erected by Argentinian revolutionaries in 1811 to commemorate the first anniversary of their uprising against Spain. Plaza de Mayo also features a monument to General Manuel Belgrano -- a hero of the nation's war for independence and designer of Argentina's flag -- that depicts the revolutionary on horseback.

 
  Cabildo The Cabildo served as the Spanish government's base during Argentina's colonial days, and its construction proceeded in fits and starts between the early 17th century and 1764, when major construction was completed. The building, the Plaza de Mayo's only surviving colonial-era structure, hosts a museum commemorating the May Revolution of 1810, during which Argentina declared its independence from Spain. Every Thursday and Friday, the Cabildo hosts a craft fair where local artisans offer their wares.

 
  Club Atletico Club Atletico's (exccdytclubatletico.com.ar) innocuous-sounding name belies the unspeakable horrors that took place within its walls during the early years of Argentina's "Dirty War." Between 1976, when a military junta seized power, and the restoration of civilian rule in 1983, the government mercilessly cracked down on opponents real and imagined. Nearly 30,000 Argentineans became "desaparecidos," or "the disappeared," seized by the military and never seen again, according to the International Center for Transitional Justice. Club Atletico was one of many government torture chambers used during the Dirty War; Frommer's notes that the ruling junta hauled approximately 1,500 people into its depths, most of whom would never return to the light of day. Though the main building was demolished in 1977 to make way for a highway, its subterranean torture chambers remain, and the site admits visitors during breaks in ongoing forensic archaeology work.

 
  La Manzana de Las Luces La Manzana de las Luces (manzanadelasluces.gov.ar) was the intellectual hub of colonial-era Buenos Aires and served as the Jesuit order's base in the Spanish colony. The order constructed the Iglesia San Ignacio, one of Argentina's oldest churches, and established its headquarters within the Procuraduria building during the late 17th century. The Procuraduria later became the site of the University of Buenos Aires, and the block is also the location of the Casas Virreinales, where the first independent Argentinean congress held its inaugural meeting. Guided tours in Spanish are offered daily, but you can only book a tour with an English-speaking guide when visiting with a group of 20 people or more and reserving your tour at least two weeks in advance.

 
  Parque de la Memoria The Parque de la Memoria (parquedelamemoria.org.ar), resting atop a grassy hill overlooking the Rio Plata, stands as a testament to Argentina's desaparecidos, . The river is believed to be the final resting place of many of the disappeared, who were likely ejected from military helicopters high above the river, sinking without a trace beneath its waters. The park's pathways wind past a series of stark stone walls engraved with the names of 9,000 of the disappeared, and the site also hosts 17 sculptures created by Argentinean and international artists, each representing the anguish and terror suffered by the disappeared.

 
    References  Travel Beunos Aires, Argentina: Illustrated Guide, Phrasebook and Maps; MobileReferenceFrommer&#8217;s: Buenos Aires Attractions: Review of CabildoThe Argentina Independent; Bicentary: The May RevolutionMemories From Darkness: Archaeology of Repression and Resistance in Latin America; Pedro Funari, et. al.Frommer&#8217;s: Buenos Aires Attractions: Review of Club AtleticoBBC: News: Timeline: ArgentinaFodor&#8217;s: Buenos Aires Sights: La Manzana de Las Luces (The Block of Illumination) ReviewInternational Center for Transitional Justice: Memory &amp; Justice: Parque de la MemoriaFodor&#8217;s: Buenos Aires Sights: Parque de la Memoria ReviewFodor&#8217;s: Buenos Aires Sights: Plaza de Mayo Review 
  Resources  Travel.State.Gov: Argentina: Country Specific Information 
  About the Author  Since 2006 Jim Orrill has produced reviews and essays on popular culture for publications including Lemurvision and "Sexis." Based in Western North Carolina, Orrill graduated cum laude from the University of North Carolina with a bachelor's degree in office systems.

 
  Photo Credits   Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images  
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  What Are Three Historical Places &amp; Landmarks in Colombia? Famous Monuments in Peru History of Carnival in Rio De Janeiro Facts on Lake Titicaca Monuments of Venezuela Famous Monuments in Panama   Travel Tips Articles  "Tourist Attractions in Cordoba, Argentina" Winter Vacations to South America Cheap Argentina Vacations What Are the Top Four Places to Visit in Argentina? An Argentina Packing List What Do I Need to Do Before Traveling to South America? Monuments in Michigan Famous Attractions in Georgia Famous Beaches in Argentina Famous Buildings in Colombia   Test Your Knowledge    Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge     Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge     Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
