 
				
1. Iguazu Falls - These falls are located on the border of Argentina and Brazil and are one of the new 7 wonders of the world. Its brink spanning a distance of 2 km and an average flow of 1.3 million liters per second. The Iguazu Falls are consisted of about 275 individual waterfalls and cascades 


Best Attractions In Argentina: Iguazu Falls


 


2. Perito Moreno Glacier -  Located 48 miles from the town of El Calafate. The Perito Moreno Glacier is a huge tourists attraction, most of which arrive to El Calafate to the soul purpose of visiting this Glacier. The tourists can view the glacier from a small boat on Lake Argentino, or from three viewing areas on land. Lucky visitors witness huge chunks of ice breaking from the glacier and plummeting into Lake Argentino. The more adventurous can go on a walk on the glacier, or a helicopter flight. The Perito Moreno is 30 km (19 mi) in length
Best Attractions In Argentina: Perito Moreno Glacier


 


3. Mount Fitz Roy - Also known as Monte Fitz Roy or Cerro Fitz Roy, this mountain is located near El Chalt&#233;n village, in the Southern Patagonian Ice Field. The mountain area is very popular for hiking among tourists who arrive to El Chalten for a day from the nearby city of El Calafate, or for overnight stay. The mountain itself was first climbed in 1952, and remains among the most technically challenging mountains on Earth for mountaineers

Scroll down below to continue reading


   Loading... 
  
 
Best Attractions In Argentina: Mount Fitz Roy


 


Continue Below


4. Bariloche - With the formal name of San Carlos de Bariloche, this small village is known for its chocolate shops, Swiss-style architecture and most of all for the beautiful lakes and snow capped mountains surrounding it. Bariloche is a place every tourists must stay in for at least a couple of nights, and it serves as a gateway to spectacular landscapes and outdoor adventures
Best Attractions In Argentina: Bariloche


 


5. Buenos Aires - The capital city and the largest city in Argentina, Buenos Aires is best known for its European architecture, gourmet cuisine and vivid nightlife. It's the starting point of every tour in Argentina and a great place to spend a few days. Click here for a list of the best attractions in Buenos Aires


Best Attractions In Argentina: Buenos Aires (source: wiki)


 


6. Ushuaia - The world's most southern city is located on the very edge of the continent of South America. Ushuaia was once used as a penal colony because of its isolated location. It is now one of the most popular places to visit in Argentina, and serves as a popular base for Antarctica cruises, winter sports and wildlife viewing


Best Attractions In Argentina: Ushuaia


 


7. Puerto Madryn - Located on the shores of Gulfo Nuevo, the city of Puerto Madryn is best known as the gateway to Peninsula Valdes. It is also a popular summer destination. attracting tourists to its beautiful beaches


Best Attractions In Argentina: Puerto Madryn


8. Mar Del Plata - Mar del Plata is the country's top beach resort city. Located on the Atlantic Coast in the Buenos Aires Province, Mar del Plata attracts millions of tourists every year to its sandy beaches and lively culture


Best Attractions In Argentina: Mar Del Plata


 


9. Cordoba - Cordoba is Argntina's second largest city after Buenos Aires. Surrounded by valleys and mountains, Cordoba is best known for its concentration of Spanish colonial buildings. Most of these historic palaces, churches and monuments are found in the city center within an area known as the Jesuit Block


Best Attractions In Argentina: Cordoba


 


10. Mendoza - The capital city of Mendoza Province, located on the eastern side of the Andes. Mendoza is a popular tourist destination not only for its wine but also for its proximity to Aconcagua, the highest mountain in the Americas. Mendoza also offers access to beautiful scenery and outdoor adventures such as hiking, horse riding, river rafting and more


Best Attractions In Argentina: Mendoza


Comments
					

				With the longest mountain in the world, Andes in one side and Atlantic on the other, Argentina, the southern most country of South America has attracted traders, tourists and brave explorers for a long time. Along with many spectacles of the southern hemisphere, this country also has a rich culture and peaceful lifestyle once influenced by the Spanish. In my opinion, Argentina is the most beautiful country in South America&#8230;&#8230; This is really a great article and I really enjoy reading.  I will love to explore your site and check other articles as well&#8230;&#8230;keep your the great work..


