 
					
		10 Places to visit in Argentina
 		
	
				Top 10 Places to visit in Argentina 


	Posted by:  Steve H&#228;nisch  
	
	in  South America Travel Guides 
	
	
					40
SHARES 
 Share  Subscribe 
 Tweet 


Hol Dir den Newsletter & das Backpacker Starter Kit! 


Das ist drin:

eBook mit Reisetipps
Packliste als PDF
gratis Online-Reisevideos
5 Reisef&#252;hrer
monatl. die beliebtesten Artikel


<em>Kein Spam. Kein T&#252;delkram. Abmeldung jederzeit m&#246;glich!</em>


            This post is also available in: German


After traveling through Argentina for 4 months I often get asked for the best places to visit in Argentina. Therefore I put together this top 10 list covering the highlights from north to south and west to east of this beautiful country!


			 Download my Argentina-eBook!

I published all information needed to plan your trip to Argentina in one clear and concise 100 page eBook based on my experience. The book includes travel guides for the several regions of Argentina and is designed to save you a lot of time & make your trip much easier!
			

I was lucky enough to travel almost the complete country from Salta in the north to Ushuaia in the very south - I hiked, learned spanish, hitchhiked, had big nights out and enjoyed great food.


This article is part of a whole series of free guides for Backpacking in South America.


1) El Chaltén 

		
	Laguna Sucia and Fitz Roy


El Chaltén is the trekking capital of Argentina and is surrounded by world famous mountains (Cerro Torre & Mt Fitz Roy), glaciers and lakes. Hiking in this area is unbelievably beautiful and should be very high up on your bucket list. I also wrote a hiking guide about it.
2) Ushuaia & Tierra del Fuego

		
	If you head south: Tierra del Fuego and Ushuaia are the places to visit in Argentina


The end of the world is more beautiful than it sounds - the rough coast along the Beagle Channel is impressive, offers great outdoors and is the destination for adventure seekers (antarctica expeditions start here). Check out my photographs for more!
3) Rosario

		
	Rosario, a charming city where I spent more than a month


As you know I fell in love with this little gem located at the Parana river. The great location, the warm-hearted people and the fact that there are not so many tourists are perfect conditions for a get-away from the hectic capital!
4) Bariloche

		
	The lake region around Bariloche is one of the must places to visit in Argentina


The beautiful lake region around Bariloche is without any doubts one of the must places to visit in Argentina. Nowhere else you can find so much green landscape - perfect for hiking, biking or a road trip!
5) Iguazu Falls

		
	Iguazu at sunset By: SF Brit


At the northern border Argentina shares one of the worlds most impressive falls with Brazil. Due to the infrastructure and viewpoints the argentinean side near Puerto Iguazu is often called the better option to see the Iguazu falls - but I recommend to bring more time to checkout both sides ;)
6) El Calafate & Perito Moreno

		
	The Perito Moreno Glacier


With its glaciers patagonia made it high up on my overall list for regions to visit in South America. In the argentinean part the National Park Los Glaciares is awaiting you with the Perito Moreno. Due to the location of the glacier facing a small peninsula you're able to get up really close. Checkout the video I made!
7) Buenos Aires

		
	Don't miss the capital


Everything comes together in the capital: history, tango, nightlife, good food, impressive architecture, great streetart...though Buenos Aires can be quite tough after a while, you shouldn't miss it!

 

I wrote a complete Travel Guide for Buenos Aires with a lot of great recommendations.
8) Salta

		
	Valles Calchaquíes By: Kevin Jones


In the north of the country you should visit the Valles Calchaquíes - perfect for a day trip from Salta or even multiple day hikes!

 

Check out the guide I wrote about the best things to do in the region of Salta & Jujuy!
9) Mendoza

		
	Salentein Vinyard By: David


Argentina is famous for its red wine, the most popular one is the Malbec. Mendoza is the wine region of the country, if you visit you should go on a wine tour - also the hostels are great here (most of them have swimming pools) and the nightlife is awesome.
10) El Bolson

		
	El Bolson


This small Hippie-village is located to the south of Bariloche and offers a great landscape beside a very special atmosphere. If you go hiking the "Cabeza del Indio" is a nice little hike where you come to see the panorama above!


 

my complete eBook for Argentina

 

Backpacking in Argentina: my Argentina Travel Guide

 

This is a clear and concise 100 page eBook based on my experience from 3 months traveling through Argentina.

 

The book includes travel guides for the several regions of Argentina as well as a tiny trekking guide for El Chaltén and Ushuaia. Checklists are included to help make sure you don't forget anything.

 

This eBook is designed to save you a lot of time & make your trip much easier. Download it now and take it with you!

 

more information &gt;&gt;

<br clear="all">

 

You like it? Share it! (...because sharing is caring)

40
SHARES 
 Share  Subscribe 
 Tweet 


Hol Dir den Newsletter & das Backpacker Starter Kit! 


Das ist drin:

eBook mit Reisetipps
Packliste als PDF
gratis Online-Reisevideos
5 Reisef&#252;hrer
monatl. die beliebtesten Artikel


<em>Kein Spam. Kein T&#252;delkram. Abmeldung jederzeit m&#246;glich!</em>


 

 


	Der Fitz Roy nahe El Chaltén..und ich..in trauter Zweisamkeit :)


Your favorite places to visit in Argentina?
Let me know in the comments which place is your favorite or if you think there is another which should be in the list!


				Argentina Argentina @de @en 				


								+Steve H&#228;nisch

								
			tweet
				
			
