 		
							
							There are many interesting tourist attractions in Mongolia. Mongolia is a land of adventure, lots of half-wild horses, nomadic. This is a land where you can experience wide open spaces, cobalt blue skies, forests, deserts, rivers and crystal clear lakes. Mongolia is entirely landlocked, between China and Russia. The country is nicknamed the &#8220;Land of Blue Skies,&#8221; and with good reason. The geography of Mongolia is varied, with the Gobi Desert to the south and with cold and mountainous regions to the north and west. Much of Mongolia consists of steppes, with forested areas


Here are top tourist attractions:


1. Gobi Desert
Gobi Desert is a large desert region in Asia. It covers parts of northern and northwestern China, and of southern Mongolia. The Gobi is most notable in history as part of the great Mongol Empire, and as the location of several important cities along the Silk Road. Several large nature reserves have been established in the Gobi, including Gobi Gurvansaikhan National Park, Great Gobi A and Great Gobi B Strictly Protected Area.


2. Khovsgol Lake
Lake Khovsgol or Kh&#246;vsg&#246;l nuur is Mongolia&#8217;s second largest lake and it is located 1645 meters above the sea level and it measures about 136 km long. Khuvsgul is one of seventeen ancient lakes worldwide more than 2 million years old, and the most pristine (apart from Lake Vostok). as well as being the most significant drinking water reserve of Mongolia. The lake is traditionally considered sacred in a land suffering from arid conditions where most lakes are salty. The lake area also features a national park which is home to wildlife such as wolverine, brown bear, musk deer, sable, Siberian moose, wolf, elk and ibex.


3. Gorkhi-Terelj National Park
Gorkhi-Terelj National Park is mountainous area with a beautiful river, forests and some interestingly shaped rocks. The Terelj tourist zone has a number of tourist camps. A small southern portion of the park is developed for tourists, with restaurants, souvenir shops, horses and camels for rent, and tourist ger camps, many of them run by the Juulchin corporation, the former state tourism company. However, most of the park is undeveloped and difficult to access. Attractions include Khagiin Khar Lake, a 20m deep glacial lake 80 km upstream from the tourist camps, and Yestii Hot Water Springs, natural hot springs 18 km further upstream. The park also has a Buddhist monastery that is open to visitors. Park wildlife includes brown bears and over 250 species of birds. The Tuul River flows through the park.


4. Altai Tavan Bogd National Park
Altai Tavan Bogd National Park covers 6362 square kilometres and is located south of Tavan Bogd, the highest mountain of Mongolia. It includes the lakes Khoton, Khurgan, and Dayan. The protected area is inhabited by species such as the Argali sheep, Ibex, Red deer, Beech marten, Moose, Snow cock, and Golden eagle. Altai Tavan Bogd National Park is home to the highest mountains and largest glacier in Mongolia


5. Erdene Zuu
The Erdene Zuu Monastery is probably the earliest surviving Buddhist monastery in Mongolia. Located in &#214;v&#246;rkhangai Province, approximately 2 km north-east from the center of Kharkhorin and adjacent to the ancient city of Karakorum, it is part of the Orkhon Valley Cultural Landscape World Heritage Site. Today Erdene Zuu remains an active Buddhist monastery as well as a museum that is open to tourists.


Best time to visit Mongolia is month May-September. The ideal Mongolia travel season starts in May and the highest peak in July, during the Naadam holiday, and in August when the weather is most favourable for travelling. This is the best time if you like the culture and can bear the crowds of other tourists. September is also a good time to visit.


							Related Posts								
									
										
											10 Interesting Places In China That You Must Visit										 
									
									
										No Comments | Mar 9, 2013 
									
 
											Top 10 Tourist Attractions In Beijing Must Visit										 
									
									
										No Comments | Jul 12, 2013 
									
 
											(40+)Most Popular Things To Do In Bangkok: Must Visit Bangkok Tourism										 
									
									
										No Comments | Sep 25, 2014 
									
 
											Borobudur: The World&#8217;s Largest Buddhist Temple										 
									
									
										No Comments | Sep 7, 2015 
									
 
				Add Yur Thoughts


