 
                                                                        
The Simien Mountain


The mountain is located within 175 km from Addis Ababa and is one of the major highlands of Africa with the fourth highest peak in the continent Ras Dashen at 4,550 meters. The Semiens are remarkable as being one of the few spots in Africa where snow regularly falls.


Bale Mountains National Park


Bale Mountains National Park is the largest area of Afro-Alpine habitat in Africa located situated within 260 km from Addis Ababa with numerous spectacular volcanic plugs, peaks, beautiful alpine lakes and rushing mountain streams that descend to the lowlands.


Dallol and Mount Erta Ale


This is one of the most important features of Africa resulted from faulting and cracking on its eastern side and with a volcanic exploration crater.


The Castles of Gondar and other monuments (Gondar)


Situated within 748 km from Addis Ababa and it was founded by Emperor Fasilidas in 1635. Castles of Gondar is famous for its many medieval castles and the design, decoration of its churches and Bathing Palace of Emperor Fasilidas.


Axum historical and archaeological sites, central Tigray (Tigray Region)


Axum historical and archaeological sites are located in central Tigray Region within 642 km from Adiss Ababa. Axum is known for its obelisks and it was once one of the four kingdoms of the world and a home to the Queen of Sheba whose ruined palace and bathing pool is still in the town.


The Blue Nile Falls


Blue Nile Falls is a waterfall on the Blue Nile River in Ethiopia. It is known as Tis Abay in Amharic, meaning "smoking water". It is situated on the upper course of the river about 30 km downstream from the town of Bahir Dar and Lake Tana and 225 km from Addis Ababa can be enjoyed as part of an excursion from the capital.


Lake Tana


Lake Tana is the largest lake in Ethiopia situated within 368 km from Addis Ababa and it the source of the Blue Nile from where it starts its long journey to Khartoum and on to the Mediterranean. There are 37 islands that are found on this lake and they include; Birgida Mariam, Dega Estefanous, Dek, Narga, Tana Cherkos, Mitsele Fasiledes, Kebran and Debre Maryam.


The Sof Omar Cave


Sof Omar is the longest cave in Ethiopia at 15.1, longest system of caves in Africa and most spectacular underground cave systems in the world. The cave is an important Islamic Shrine was named after the saintly Sheikh Sof Omar who took refuge here many centuries ago. The cave has a religious history that predates the arrival of the Muslims in Bale.


The Rift Valley


The Ethiopian Rift Valley is situated within 515 km from Addis Ababa and it is part of the famous East African Rift Valley that comprises of numerous hot springs, beautiful lakes and a variety of wildlife. The Rift Valley is known for breathtaking plains, Swayne's hartebeest in the wild and standing stones of Tiya. 515 ki


Awash National Park


Awash National Park is located within 211 Km east of Addis Ababa and it covers 756 sqkm. The park contains an interesting range of volcanic landscapes that is Fentale Volcano and turquoise-blue pools of the natural hot springs in the extreme north of the park.


Danakil Depression


The Danakil depression is located within 750 km from Addis Ababa and it shares the Eritrean border on the east of the Tigrian highlands in the North East of Ethiopia. It is one of the hottest and driest areas on earth having an average temperature of 35+ degrees Celsius. It is a place dotted with active volcanoes, hot springs, Lava Lake, salted basins and above all lunar landscapes.


Lalibela


Lalibelais located in northern Ethiopia within 672 km from Addis Ababa and it is famous for11 incredible rock-hewn monolithic churches which were built by King Lalibela way back in the late 12th. Lalibela is one of Ethiopia's holiest cities, second only to Aksum, and is a centre of pilgrimage for much of the country.


Harar


This is the oldest Islamic city in Africa. The city is known for ancient buildings and impressive city walls with approximately 99 mosques. Harar ciy is situated within 513 km from Addis Ababa.
