 

                Travel Advisor Tips

             
                Travel Destination Guides, Attractions, Things To Do, Hotels, Tours and Cruise Reviews
             
         
            			Europe

	Western Europe
	
		Austria
		Belgium
		France
		Germany
		Greece
		Italy
		Ireland
		Netherlands
		Spain
		Switzerland
		United Kingdom
	

	Eastern Europe
	
		Bulgaria
		Croatia
		Czech Republic
		Hungary
		Poland
		Russia
	

	Scandinavia
	
		Denmark
		Iceland
		Norway
		Sweden
	

North America

	USA
	
		Alaska
		Arizona
		Arkansas
		California
		Colorado
		Florida
		Georgia
		Hawaii
		Kentucky
		Louisiana
		Missouri
		Nevada
		New Mexico
		New York
		North Carolina
		Ohio
		Pennsylvania
		South Carolina
		Tennessee
		Texas
		Utah
		Virginia
		Washington
	

	Canada
	Mexico


Caribbean

	Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao
	Bahamas
	Bermuda
	Jamaica
	Puerto Rico
	St. Lucia
	Turks and Caicos


Central America

	Belize
	Costa Rica
	Panama


South America

	Argentina
	Brazil
	Ecuador
	Peru
	Venezuela


Africa

	Egypt
	South Africa


Middle East

	Israel
	Turkey
	United Arab Emirates


Asia

	Cambodia
	China
	India
	Indonesia
	Japan
	Maldives
	South Korea
	Sri Lanka
	Thailand


Australia / Pacific

	Australia
	New Zealand


Cruises

	Alaska Cruises
	Bahamas Cruises


        Top 10 Things To Do in Madagascar

              Home &#187; Africa &#187; Madagascar &#187;     

        
            True to form Madagascar remains mystical and unspoiled.  There is a blurry thin line between reality and fantasy as there are some things you will be familiar with, but many more you will not be.   The sounds, colors and surroundings are so rare that you won&#8217;t believe your eyes.  This makes getting there all the better.  For ideas on what&#8217;s in store for you once you book the Madagascar vacation packages and land on the island, check out our list.  It is jammed packed with fun, new and exciting experiences you&#8217;ll remember for a lifetime.  Here are the top 10 things to do in Madagascar.  


1.	This trip could possibly be one of those once in a lifetime vacations for many.  So quickly jump on board and sign up for as many Madagascar tourist attractions that you can find.  The location is perfect for going on a safari through the Tsingy De Bemaraha Strict Nature Reserve.  Listen and look and you&#8217;ll be sure to spot the elusive bamboo lemur.


2.	With over 300 different species of birds on the island, bird-watching at Ampijoroa can be a tranquil pastime during your vacation.  Many of the species are indigenous to Madagascar.


3.	Madagascar beaches are a wondrous place to watch a sunset retreat. 


4.	If shopping is high on your priority list, you won&#8217;t want to leave the island without visiting the world's second largest shopping market, Zoma Market to acquire all your local handcrafts, souvenirs, cultural art and much more.


5.	Be prepared for abundant adventure on Madagascar tours, such as the white water rafting excursion at Lily Falls.  


6.	While fishing was once only considered a source of survival for the coastal people on the island, like some many other things there, deep sea fishing trips have evolved into things to do in Madagascar for tourists looking to catch the big one.  


7.	Those wanting a captivating experience should consider visiting Ankarana National Park and gearing up for tunneling though caves full of bats, shiny stalagmites and crocodiles that call the underground rivers home.  


8.	Try snorkeling and scuba diving in some of the world's most pristine water in the Indian Ocean.  The marine life will be some of the strangest creatures you've never seen before.  


9.	Very interesting things to do in Madagascar would be to visit Royal Hill and see the palace of past kings near the capital city.  This is also a World Heritage Site (UNESCO).  


10.	Bike or trek up Mountain Andringitra to get a glimpse of the magnificent natural waterfalls.  Expect to see epic landscape scenery on a larger scale than even the Grand Canyon of Arizona can provide.

Highly sought after destination because of its biodiversity and ecotourism industry that is continuingly developing at a rapid pace to keep up with the high demand.  The more tourists that plan to visit, the more tourism officials will create adventurous, creative and cultural things to do in Madagascar.  


        madagascar beaches, madagascar tourist attractions, madagascar tours, madagascar vacation packages, things to do in madagascar 
 

Popular Articles

15 Things To Do in Las Vegas During the Day 
Top 10 Most Interesting Mount Fuji Facts 
Top 10 Famous Landmarks in Argentina 
Top 10 Most Amazing Caves and Caverns in USA 
Top 10 Interesting Mount Rainier Facts 
7 Interesting Abu Simbel Temple Facts To Know 
Top 10 Places To Visit in Northern California 
Gay Venice Italy &#8211; Top 10 Gay and Lesbian Places To Go! 
7 Interesting Grand Canal Venice Facts 
7 Most Interesting Facts About Il Duomo Florence 


		Our Facebook Page


Our Twitter Followers		

		
							traveladvisor4u on Twitter 
						
					
						Follow @traveladvisor4u
					

					432 people follow traveladvisor4u	
				

							FSAtlant 
							
					 
							Bowersco 
							
					 
							YettioTr 
							
					 
							my_Trott 
							
					 
							mywifeis 
							
					 
							Iram_kaz 
							
					 
							Nancy019 
							
					 
							tal2rah 
							
					 
							thyebj 
							
					 
							Leostara 
							
					 
							<br>
			

	Our Google+ Community			


		Follow Us
    

             &#169; 2016  Travel Advisor Tips | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Contact Us 
        

