Things to do in Argentina
Argentina must have invented the word macho for it is definitely a masculine country, everything is big, strong and overwhelming from the parties of Buenos Aires to the Pampas to the Andes mountains that separate the country from its skinnier neighbour, Chile. There are lots of unusual and amazing things to do, way more than can be fitted into a top ten but use ours as a beginning then add to it once you’re there.
Posted on: June 01, 2012 by David Lewis
1. The City
Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina and a riot of colour, festivals, music and dance. The city is alternately grubby and beautiful with wide streets, stunning buildings and vibrancy of its people and culture. There are some amazing things to be seen but my favourite is the avenue that’s reputed to be the widest in the world. Named after the country’s independence day, the 9th of July, 22 lanes of traffic vie for position along this massive road, how you get to change lanes or turn off is a big mystery. During celebrations, the area around the massive obelisk is a favourite for impromptu parties.

2. The Glaciers
In this time of global warming, the size and propensity of glaciers is diminishing rapidly. It’s one of those things you have to see before they all disappear and some of the best examples are on the eastern slopes of the Andes. Here a range of them, the most spectacular being El Calafete and Perito Moreno extend like a giant tongue down massive valleys. You stand there in the cold air chilled by the unbelievable mass of ice and think ‘How on earth did that start?’ Sadly, we know how it will end so enjoy them whilst you can.

3. Iguazu Falls
There are some waterfalls I think off as a little fake, you get the hype then turn up to find just a trickle or a series of small drops. If someone says get to Iguazu, you go! The falls are truly spectacular, along the lines of Victoria or Niagara. They are taller than Niagara and twice as wide – it’s a wonder they’re not more famous but they are considered as potentially one of the wonders of the natural world. The thunderous noise is deafening and the mist that hangs in the air from the battering the water receives soaks you from a long way away.

4. Valdes Peninsula
Some of the less balanced of us have longed to be David Attenborough and head off to see the wilder side of nature. Here at Valdez you’ll have your chance. Wildlife abounds here so take a ‘cameraman’ friend put on that plummy knowledgeable accent and do a wildlife program. Start off watching the whales play boisterously in the icy waters before turning your attention to the million and a half Magellan Penguins – take a handkerchief though, the smell of ammonia from their dropping is eye watering! On the shoreline, watch out for yourself as elephant seal, walrus, leopard seals and sea lions vie for breeding positions. Get in their way and you’ll be flattened quicker than you can say BBC Wildlife.

5. Eating in Argentina
No chance for diets here. The food is based mostly on proteins, don’t upset the chef by asking ‘Where’s the veg’ or ‘Can I have a salad with that?’ Argentina is famed for its beef – the cows roam free across the massive Pampas region eating just natural vegetation. When they get to the restaurant they become juicy, succulent steaks or hearty stews and in abundance. Food is cheap here too – another reason why you get lashings – just expect to have added a few pounds by the time you get home!

6. The Seven Lakes Region
When the gauchos want some R n R or some male bonding time they head out to the Seven lakes region. Here, the chances of seeing any form of human life is as remote as the lakes themselves. The scenery is spectacular, emerald hills and sapphire blue lakes against a cobalt sky. Time for camping, fishing, hunting and canoeing. Then at the end of the day sitting round a campfire grilling the day’s rewards and swigging back the beer. Finish off with the fiery spirit Fernet before falling asleep under the silent ink black sky.

7. Quebrada de Humahuaca
An unusual one now; the valley of Quebrada which contains the timeless village of Humahuaca. This is real cowboy country. The valley is spectacular in itself, deep and scrubby, it is populated by regiments of cactus that seem to be waiting, guarding the valley like a posse. Head up to the village of Humahuaca for a taste of Argentina a century or more ago. Wooden houses in quaint streets, some reminiscent of Dodge City will have you reaching for your imaginary holster! The whole village is a UNESCO Heritage Site and was founded by the Incas.

8. Valley of the Moon
If Jurassic Park was your thing, take a trip to Valle de la Luna and see landscapes that you’d imagine haven’t changed since the dinosaurs. Here, the effects of wind, earth movements , rivers and rain have conspired to build impossible rock formations whilst millions of years ago, the sedimentary rock trapped the fossils of dinosaurs and other vertebrates. You can hardly move around without tripping over one and there’s even dinosaur footprints into the bargain. Add to this the fossilised trees and the evidence of early civilisation and you have a marvellous day out.

9. The End of the World
The city of Ushuaia is the furthest south in the world you’d imagine that close to Antarctica that it would be an ice covered wilderness. However, because of geographical features in its environment it is relatively temperate. Originally the area was discovered by Charles Darwin as he sailed around the Cape but then many years later a prison was built here to house the worst of Argentina’s criminals. When that closed the city remained, close to the isolation of the southern end of the world.

10. Tango Time
Argentina is famed for its tango, the powerful, erotic story told through dance of the prostitute who doesn’t want to give her services too easily to the gaucho. The story is played out through the moves and emotions of the dance and is thrilling to watch. Many clubs in Buenos Aires welcome newcomers to the dance and give lessons free for the willing and able. Feel the power and eroticism as you staccato around the floor.  
 
