  The Five Best Things to See in Madagascar
      Travel Tips   
   Jane Gosford, studioD    
 
      
  Madagascar's national parks feature more then 30 different types of lemurs.   (Photo: Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images )  

  
   Related Articles Facts on the Rainforest in Madagascar Five Things to See at the Badlands Famous Landmarks in Madagascar Ecotourism in Madagascar    Madagascar, an independent island nation located in the Indian Ocean and just off the southeastern coast of Africa, remains covered in densely forested and mountainous terrain, providing visitors with an array of rare outdoor adventures. In fact, approximately 80 percent of the island features animals not found in other parts of the world. Madagascar is slightly smaller than Texas and is the fourth largest island in the world.

 
  Parc National de Ranomafana Parc National de Ranomafana lies in the southeastern region of Madagascar, spread out over more than 10,000 acres. The park encompasses a combination of valleys and mountainous peaks, with some towering upwards of 4,500 feet. As a result, the park includes both cloud forests and lowland rain forests. The lush vegetation is nestled among waterfalls, rivers, streams and hot springs, and includes wildflowers, bamboo and ferns. The rain forest serves to protect the park&#8217;s thriving lemur population, including such varieties as golden bamboo and greater bamboo lemurs.

 
  Akany Avoko Based in the capital city of Antananarivo, Akany Avoko (akanyavoko.com) serves as a home for approximately 120 homeless children. The center, which remains open to the public, aims to both nurture and educate the kids. Visitors may tour the facility, watching as the kids work on a variety of crafts, including T-shirts and bags. The site also helps children learn to cook and grow garden vegetables. The facility features a cafe and gift shop, which raises money by selling kid-made crafts.

 
  Masoala National Park Located along Madagascar&#8217;s northeastern peninsula, Masoala National Park (masoala.org) sits upon more than a half-million acres of land. The park includes such terrain as coastal forests, rain forests, marshland and coral reef, the latter of which offers opportunities for kayaking and snorkeling. The park also plays host to wildlife, such as geckos and chameleons, as well as the rare aye-aye lemurs, serpent eagles and tomato frogs. Between July and September, visitors may spy humpback whales migrating into Antongil Bay.

 
  Ile Sainte-Marie Ile Sainte-Marie, also known as Nosy Boraha, is an island which lies just five miles off the eastern coast of Madagascar. The island stretches 30 miles long and 4 miles wide and features white sand beaches, coconut palms, granite rocks, coves, sand dunes, small villages and protected coral reef. Visitors may snorkel through the reef, garnering views of sea turtles, lobster, tropical fish and pirate shipwrecks. The island caters to the outdoor enthusiast with bike rentals, fishing and surfing, too. Ikalalao Forest includes hiking trails and plays host to fat-tailed dwarf lemurs, tree frogs and endemic chameleons. The island once served as a retreat for the pirate Capt. William Kidd.

 
  Nosy Be Located off Madagascar&#8217;s northwest coast, the island of Nosy Be features 124 miles of coastline and serves as the nation&#8217;s top resort destination. Lined with coffee, cacao and vanilla plantations, the fragrant island also includes 11 volcanic lakes, lemur-filled forests and palm tree-lined beaches. The island&#8217;s main town, Hellville, includes markets, hotels, outdoor cafes and colonial style homes and churches. The northern end of the island features a mixture of sugarcane fields and white sand beaches. Visitors may also hike the mountains Passot and Lokone, both of which offer sweeping vistas of the island and the surrounding turquoise waters, often used for snorkeling and diving.

 
    References  Institute for the Conservation of Tropical Environments: Welcome to Ranomafana National ParkLonely Planet: Introducing Parc National de RanomafanaAkany Avoko: ExperienceMasoala National ParkWild Madagascar: Ile Ste-MarieTravel Madagascar: Sainte Marie (Nosy Boraha)Madagascar National Tourism Board: Nosy BeLonely Planet: Nosy BeTravel Madagascar: Nosy Be 
  Resources  Lonely Planet: 5 Fabulous Things to Do in MadagascarFodor's: Overlooked and Underrated: Masoala Peninsula, MadagascarHotelClub Travel Blog: 5 Not-to-Be-Missed Attractions of MadagascarCalifornia Academy of Sciences: Fun Facts About Madagascar 
  About the Author  A travel writer since 2002, Jane Gosford has written countless articles for online pop-culture magazines and various travel-related websites, including Eurobooking and World66. Gosford also has experience in copywriting, having developed a series of articles related to network marketing. She graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles with a degree in theater arts.

 
  Photo Credits   Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images  
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  Physical Geographic Features &amp; Landforms of Madagascar Nightclubs on Mauritius Island "Hotels on Grand Island, New York" Beachfront Vacation Bungalows in Bali "Beaches in Kahoolawe, HI" What Cultural Activities Are Available in Madagascar?   Travel Tips Articles  Cheap Long Island Hotels Phuket Resorts and Hotels "Activities in Siesta Key, Florida" "Hotels in Shelter Island, New York" "Restaurants in Padre Island, Texas" Spelunking In Madagascar How to Experience Maui in a Week Famous Places in Madagascar "Beaches in Leyte Island, Philippines" Things to Do at the Statue of Liberty   Test Your Knowledge    Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?     Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge     Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
