  Major Attractions in Madagascar
      Travel Tips   
   Mark Heidelberger, studioD    
 
      
  Madagascar's diverse landscape is home to an array of exotic wildlife.   (Photo: Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images )  

  
   Related Articles Famous Landmarks in Madagascar Famous Places in Madagascar Physical Geographic Features &amp; Landforms of Madagascar What Can a Tourist Do in Madagascar?    Madagascar is the fourth-largest island in the world, having broken off from Africa during a cataclysmic earthquake some 165 million years ago. The country's distinct culture, traditions, religion and language resulted from a fusion created by Indian, African and Arabic tribes that peacefully inhabited the land together over many hundreds of years. Madagascar attracts thousands of adventurous tourists from every corner of the world thanks largely to tourist-friendly resorts areas, wildlife preserves and myriad natural and historic attractions.

 
  Andasibe Mantadia Andasibe Mantadia is the country's most accessible national park, comprising lush rainforest and a richly diverse biosphere. Visitors will find rare species of birds, reptiles and amphibians living together, with a crocodile farm serving as one of its top draws. The park is perhaps most famous for its many species of orchid as well as large, tail-less lemurs called indris that have very unique singing voices. Andasibe is about 86 miles from the capital city of Antananarivo and offers prime opportunities for hiking and photography, particularly around Niagarakely Waterfall.

 
  Nosy Be Archipelago The Nosy Be Archipelago is a group of Indian Ocean resort islands off the northwest coast of Madagascar with year-round temperatures of about 80 degrees F. Nosy Be itself is the largest of these islands, offering sugar-white beaches like Andilana and Amporaha where vacationers can swim, sail and sunbathe. The smaller neighboring islands of Nosy Iranja and Nosy Mitsio also boast their own beaches, with Tsarabanjina on the latter island among the most fashionable. In addition, the island of Nosy Tanikely features a marine reserve offering world-renowned snorkeling and scuba diving.

 
  Ampijoroa National Park Ampijoroa National Park is a generally dry deciduous forest in the western part of the country that sports an array of indigenous wildlife, including several species of lemurs. The park is also a birdwatcher's paradise, housing rare bird species such as the Madagascar fish eagle, pygmy kingfisher and red-capped Coua. The Nile crocodile can often be glimpsed in and around Lake Ravelobe, which is located at the center of the park. All exploring must be done on foot, as there are almost no navigable roads here. Overnight camping is popular with adventurous travelers.

 
  Royal Hill of Ambohimanga The Royal Hill of Ambohimanga is a UNESCO World Heritage site that lies about 12 miles from Madagascar's capital city of Antananarivo. It's characterized by burial sites, ancient city ruins and historically significant religious features that have existed for more than 500 years. Ambohimanga most famously served as the royal palace of the Merina clan, which hailed from the highlands around Antananarivo and ruled Madagascar during the 19th century when the French and British were both vying for control. Indigenous ficus and draceana trees from yesteryear still surround the site.

 
  Queen's Palace at Antananarivo The Queen's Palace at Antananarivo was built for Queen Ranavalona in the 17th century. She was referred to as the "Wicked Queen" and "Bloody Mary of Madagascar" due to the viciousness with which she punished missionaries and executed her own subjects. The palace itself, locally known as Manjakamiadana, is the largest of several buildings in the royal complex, although much of it burned down in 1995 after an accidental fire broke out. Much of the stone facade has since been restored, while several royal artifacts saved from the fire are housed inside.

 
    References  Cortez Travel: About MadagascarIslands Travour: Tourist Attractions in Madagascar IslandClose Encounters Africa: Madagascar Must See AttractionsTravelspedia: Major Attractions In MadagascarWild Madagascar: Andasibe MantadiaAccommodation Direct: Go Birding In AmpijoroaMaps of the World: Tourist Attractions in AntananarivoWorld Heritage Site: AmbohimangaWorld Guides: Madagascar Tourist Attractions and Madagascar Sightseeing 
  Resources  Madagascar Consulate: Places of InterestInfo Hub: Travel Attractions in MadagascarNational Tourism Office of Madagascar 
  About the Author  Mark Heidelberger has been writing for more than 22 years, from articles and short stories to novels and screenplays. He is a consummate foodie, loves to travel and has run several businesses, all of which influence his work. He also holds a Master of Fine Arts degree from UCLA.

 
  Photo Credits   Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images  
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  What Cultural Activities Are Available in Madagascar? Facts on the Rainforest in Madagascar Famous Waterfalls in Madagascar Waterfalls in Saint Lucia Spelunking In Madagascar "2-Star Hotels Near Wildey, Barbados"   Travel Tips Articles  What Animals Live in the Tropical Dry Forest Ecotourism in Madagascar Cheap Hotels Near Disney Parks The Five Best Things to See in Madagascar "Places to Stay in Hallstatt, Austria" Geographical Highlights of Ireland "Attractions &amp; Culture of Paris, France" Israel Tours and Travel The Best All Inclusive Resorts in Puerto Vallarta "The Best Cancun, Mexico Vacation"   Test Your Knowledge    Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge     Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge     Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
