Mongolia top 10 destinations
1. Altai Tavan Bogd National Park

The rugged beauty of Bayan-Olgii aimag with its pointedmountain points reaching for the sky and vast valleys crisscrossed withmeandering streams has always stood out of the western aimags of Mongolia. Bayan-Olgiiis the home to the second largest ethnic group-the Khazakhs with their uniqueculture who continue to hunt with trained golden eagles besides herding goats.The Altai region is abundant withsignificant archaeological sites dating back to Paleolithic era, evidences ofhuman habitation as far back as 40,000 and 12,000 years ago. The Altai mountainrange stretching for 900km across Russia, Mongolia and China and the TavanBogd National Park have always stood out from any other part of Mongolia. Thehighest mountain peak, the Khuiten Uul at 4374 meters flanked by four otherpeaks along with the Potanin river, the source of a massive glacier, arecommonly known as Tavan Bogd or the Five Saints.

2. Great Bogd Mountain
There are three highmountain ranges in Mongolia called Altayn range, Hangayn range and Khenteynrange. Khenteyn and Hangayn range lie oncentral and northern Mongolia. Altayn range consists of Mongol Altayn range andGovi – Altay sub ranges with 1500 km length. Ikh Bogd Snow capped Mountain isthe highest peak of Govi-Altay sub range and 3900m high above sea level. Peoplefrom Government and locals worshipped the mountain building hill stone on thetop. There is a Salty Lake called Orog in mountainside. Ikh Bogd sacredmountain had broken into gorgeand partiallycollapsed by earthquake in 1957. Thegorge is 100km long. Other notable attractions include Bichigt Khad, aworld-class petro glyphic, whose rock paintings date back to the Bronze age.The nearby Tsagaan Agui (White Cave) is believed to be the place of theearliest human inhabitance in Mongolia, with evidence of human presence datingas far back as 700,000 years ago

3. Yolin Am
The Yolin am or the Vulture’s mouth established to conservethe regional birdlife became a favorite place to visit for its dramatic andunusual natural landscape shaped by a towering mountain gorge in the middle ofthe Gobi desert with thick ice all year-round. The small Nature Museum at the gate on the main road to Yolyn Am has a collection of dinosaur eggs and bones, stuffed birds and a swon leopard. It also sells the excellent booklet Gobi Gurvan Saikhan National Park, by Bern Steinhauer-Burkhart. There are several souvenir shops and a couple of places to stay.

4. Tsagaan Suvarga
Tsagaan Suvarga is an area of 30-m high white limestoneformations and a beautifulpart of the desert. We will drive to a set of eroded limestone cliffs, fromwhere you have fantastic view over the desert floor down below, which borecolors from white and yellow to pink and deep red.

5. Bayanzag
In 1921, American paleontologist Roy Chapman Andrews fountthe dinosaur eggs and put Mongolia on the map of international adventureseekers and explorers. The origin of ancient seabed, Umnugovi has a treasurepackage of late Crafeceous dinosaurs located in Bayanzag or the Flamming Cliffsthe rocks give off orange and red colors that seem to glow at sunset.

6. Khorgo-Terkh National Park
Surrounded by extinct volcanoes the Terkhiin Tsagaan lake atan altitude of 2060 m covers an area of 61 sq.km. the spectacular geology ofKhorgo Volcano lying east of Terkhiin Tsagaan Lake certainly adds to thepleasure of visiting Arkhangai aimag. Near the crater there are dozens of smallcaverns with stalactites hanging from the ceiling and walls. In the middle ofthe lake there is a volcanic island covered with bird nests made of thefragrant grass Samkhan.

7. Eigth Lake
Naiman Nuur or The Eigth Lakes is another area worthvisiting located 70 km south-west of the Orkhon waterfall. The lakes werecreated by volcanic eruptions and are a part of the 11,500 hectare of KhuisiinNaiman Nuur Natural Reserve.

8. Khuvsgul Lake
Khuvsgul Lake- The Dark Blue Pearl of Mongolia is surroundedby lush green hills, mountains reaching for the sky, and dense alpine forestsof taiga. 96 rivers and streams empty into the lake that was created 2.5-3million years ago by tectonic activities. The majestic clear-watered lakecontains 65 % of all the fresh water of Mongolia and furthermore, 1% of theworld’s fresh water supply. Khuvsgul is the land of the Tsaatan reindeerherdsmen, a branch of the Turkic-speaking Tuvinian or Dukha ethnic group. Thissmall group of 42 families possesses a social and material culture which hasremained unchanged since the Ice Age. Shamanistic or totemic rituals andsymbolism are central to the social organization of the Tsaatan.

9. Kharkhorin-Erdenezuu Monastery
Kharkorin ancient capital of Mongolia was established byChinggis Khan in 1220 in the Orkhon valley. For 140 years Kharkhorin served asthe capital of the united Mongol tribes until it was destroyed by the Chinese troopsin 1391. The remains of the capital that stood at the crossroads of the SilkRoad are extensive underground archaeological assets and two granite turtlesthat once stood at the main gate to the city. Four of these turtle sculpturesused to mark the boundaries of ancient Kharkhorin, acting as protectors of thecity. In 1586, Erdenzuu, the first Buddhist monastery in Mongolia was built onthe ruins of the 13th century capital. Vast walls of 400m in lengthwith 108 stupas surround the monastery, symbolic of Kharkhorin.

10. Orkhon Valley Heritage
The Orkhon Valley covering an area of 1220 square kilometersis one of the most important cultural regions in the world and was recognizedby the UNESCO World Heritage as a cultural landscape in 2004. The extensive areaencompasses the pastureland on both banks of the Orkhon river and includesnumerous archaeological sites dating back to the 6th century. TheOrkhon Valley Cultural landscapes includes sites such Khakhorin, the 13thcentury capital of Chinggis Khan’s Empire. First and foremost it was the centerof the Mongolian Empire; secondly it reflects a particular Mongolian variationof Turkhish power; thirdly the Tuvkhun hermitage monastery was the setting forthe development of a Mongolian form of Buddhism; and fourthly, Khar Balgas reflects the Uighur urban culture in thecapital of the Uighur Empire.
