 

EnglishEn Fran&#231;ais


My Account

AllAfrica


By AllAfricaNews SourcesMedia Kit


Countries Topics Development BizTech Entertainment Sport Africa/World Governance Multimedia Innovation Sustainability 


&#160;

16 December 2014

The Star (Nairobi)

Kenya: Top Tourist Attractions in Central Kenya


 tweet 
 share 
 Google+ 
 comment 
 email 
 more 


<cite class="byline">By Nganga Thairu</cite>With a view to promote domestic tourism especially during this holiday season, the Kenya Tourist Board recently organised a five-day excursion for journalists to sample some of the best tourist sites in the Aberdares and Mount Kenya region.

Addressing journalists at the KTB offices in Nairobi before the start of tour, managing director Muriithi Ndegwa said the excursion aims to encourage Kenyans to take holidays in the tourist sites and promote inter-county tourism. He added that this would also help decongest some of the other top destinations like the Maasai Mara.

Some of the attractions the team visited include:

Chaka Ranch Leisure Park

Chaka Ranch Leisure Park along the Nyeri-Nanyuki Road past Kiganjo town is an exciting new adrenaline-filled getaway on the slopes of Mount Kenya. It boosts of a stunning view of Mount Kenya, barbeques, food court, a bar and seating area with a beautiful dam view.

The park's main attraction is buggy car and quad bike racing. You can take the driver's seat and race a variety of powerful off road buggies on a purpose built 2km race track. Quad bike tours for the whole family, including a junior section where children from as young as six years old can also enjoy rides on quad bikes and buggies. It is ideal for family outings, out of town friends outing and team building.

Aberdare National Park and The Treetops

Situated in the Aberdare National Park 179km from Nairobi and 17 km from Nyeri town, Treetops overlooks a water hole and salt lick, gifting visitors with the unhindered and closest possible views of wild game.

The lodge is historic since it is where young Prince Elizabeth of England became queen in 1952 when she learnt of the death of her father, King George VI.

It is at an Altitude 6,450 metres above sea level. The lodge rises straight out of the ground on stilts. It has four decks and a roof top viewing platform. The accommodation is compact and cozy. This comprises of 50 rooms as follows; 43 standard twin rooms, five standard triple rooms and two suites. All guests check in at Outspan then transferred to Treetops at 2.30pm. Guests are required to carry an overnight travel bag and leave the suitcases at Outspan luggage store.

Dedan Kimathi Wildlife Conservancy

Dedan Kimathi University of Technology is a public university with the mandate off offering quality education, research and community service. It is located in central Kenya just 6km from Nyeri Town along the Nyeri-Nyahururu road. It covers nearly 1,000 acres of which 139 are set aside for the development of Dedan Kimathi Wildlife Conservancy.

The conservancy works towards diversifying the eco-tourism sector, provide a sustainable resource for training and research and most importantly open collaboration between the host community and the university where the community is expected to derive significant benefits from the conservancy. It enhances the Nyeri Integrated Ecotourism Projects to harness the underexploited tourism potential in the Mt Kenya region and act as a training centre for students enrolled in the tourism and hospitality management degree programme.


The site boasts of an indigenous forest and a host of wild animals species.

The conservancy targets nature lovers, conservationists, researchers, sports tourists, agro-tourists, bird watchers and others by offering high value niche tourism products in line with Vision 2030 and with a view of driving Kenya to be among the top 10 tourism destinations by 2030.

The conservancy has an eco-lodge and conference centre, nature trails, a campsite, cultural interpretation displays, curio shop, wildlife viewing platform, horse trekking and a variety of animals to view.

Ngare Ndare Forest

Ngare Ndare is the only indigenous forest in Kenya with an expanding canopy cover, and some of the ancient African Olive and Red Cedar trees within it are thought to be around 200 years old. All the big five live here, and are frequently seen as they make their way from Lewa Wildlife Conservancy towards the Mount Kenya forest.

The Ngare Ndare and Ngare Nything rivers both emanate from springs in the forest, and creates paradisaical blue pools that go on to provide water for the wildlife and the surrounding communities. The tree nursery grows 100,000 indigenous seedlings a year, 50,000 of which get re-planted in degraded areas of the forest in an annual tree planting ceremony attended by community members, supporters and stakeholders.

The forest also prides itself for being the first to build the first canopy walkway in the African continent. The 4,500 metre long and 30 metre high walkway is an ideal place to watch game.

Borana Ranch &amp; Safari Lodge

With panoramic views over the Samangua Valley and the Lewa Plains to the Ngare Ndare Forest and Mount Kenya and beyond, the lodge offers eight romantic and unique cottages, each with an open fireplace and private veranda.

All cottages are entirely secluded and have private views of the valley below from both bedroom and bathroom.

All areas of the lodge overlook a lake that is a popular watering hole for the local animals so there is constant activity for guests to watch. Take a guide and walk down to the dam to enjoy a close-up view of elephants swimming!

There are eight cottages at Borana. Four have large double beds and four have twin beds -- both of which are queen size. Four of the cottages have their own veranda. Two sets of cottages share a veranda, both of which have a phenomenal view over the dam. Each cottage also has an open-fireplace lit every evening by the room stewardess; a basket of firewood is kept in each room. The bathrooms are the epitome of style: spacious, clean and with exceptional views.


The lodge is set in a verdant garden of largely indigenous plants chosen for their scents, colours and flowers. From the infinity pool guests can watch the elephants wandering their well-trodden path to the watering hole or simply relax, read and soak up the sun. The pool veranda is a favourite place for a long, leisurely lunch watching the natural world unfolds before you.

In the dining room at the main lodge guests can sample fresh produce from the ranch, fresh juice from the Borana orchard and wines from around the world. In the sitting room, sofas and armchairs surround a huge open fireplace and picture windows guarantee a continuing vista to the plains below.

The hotel, which would rightly be rightly be referred as Kenya's Hollywood, is an ideal movie shooting site and a honeymoon destination. It is also ideal as a getaway site for families and groups.

Tafaria Castle &amp; Country Lodge

Tafaria Castle &amp; Country Lodge is located along the Nyeri-Nyahururu road, 38 km from Nyahururu town. It overlooks the Laikipia plains and Kenya's rooftop, the Mt Kenya.

Right in front of you at Tafaria, the Aberdares reveals itself in majesty like wallpaper and there is no better place to gaze at it and Mt Kenya than from Tafaria.

The lodge's architectural style is completely medieval, complete with a castle and themed cottages. Accommodation is in 41 rooms of various categories which are roomy and ideal for families and for the romantic souls, the Lord's Room is available but at a premium fee.

The Lord's Room which is ideal for honeymooners or those looking for extra luxury. It overlooks the castle's four residential quarters; the Damsels' Quarters are optimally sized, the Knights' Quarters are perfect if you would like that extra space or the Vikings' Quarters if you fancy being tented. If you have a family or prefer even more space, the Lost Knights' Quarters or the Old House which is a three-bedroom cottage will provide you with that spacious accommodation.

The lodge has a pool bar serving snacks and drinks all day, the Manor Grill which also serves whole Tilapia caught right next to it and the Bailey restaurant which overlooks Mt Kenya and serves a set menu from the medieval era.

The swimming pool at 7,700 ft above sea level is the highest attitude swimming pool in the region.

Activities at the Tafaria Castle include horse riding, bird watching, nature walks, buggy car racing, fishing and swimming. The Castle dungeon is an intimate wood-paneled library which also serves as a conference room and business centre.

Its sight is simply breathtaking. The perfectly manicured lawns and the cobbled walk path leads to the magnificent entrance which is built as the gatehouse. The rough stoned walls that rise all the way to the top of the castle complete with arrow slits on the sides presents a formidable fortress.


The hotel built by former Synovate MD George Tafaria Waititu was not initially intended to be a hotel but all he wanted was to build a castle after conquering the brutality of a wilderness in the place he grew up as a child at a time of great hardship, adventure and loneliness.

One unique thing about Tafaria is a plinth of honour recognizing the more than 400 men and women who put in their sweat and energy to see the completion of the hotel as opposed to plagues in other places which honour politicians and other leading figures.

Thika Greens golf city

Thika Greens golf city along the Thika-Nairobi superhighway is an 18-hole championship golf course which can handle 300 golfers, a private members' clubhouse that is also open to non-residents, five and three star hotels, an office park, a world class shopping mall, community centre, retirement village, schools, a hospital and a police station to cater for both business and pleasure.

According to managing director Kibiru Charles, the resort is the only one in the region with golf carts which number 70. "Thika Greens has generated high interest from local investors, first home owners and Kenyans in the Diaspora which is driving sales," Kibiru says.

The development is expected to deliver up to 4,000 new homes in a fast growing locality within Thika Municipality and result in value creation of close to Sh60 billion thus providing a significant boost to the local economy.

"Thirty-two self-build houses are currently under construction and our architects are already working with even more plot owners, most of whom are set to begin building. We expect by the end of 2014, some 300 constructions will be ongoing," said Kibiru.

The shaping of its 307-acre, 18-hole championship golf course has been completed and is ready for use.

Savage Wilderness Safari

Established in 1991, Savage Wilderness Safaris is the only white water rafting operator in Kenya. In addition to white water rafting, other adventure sports on offer include kayaking, mountaineering, rock climbing, trekking and off-shore sailing throughout Kenya.

The experienced staff and modern equipment ensure a safe enjoyable experience for visitors.

Kenya school of adventure and leadership

Kenya school of adventure and leadership (Kesal) is a public outdoor training centre established in 1990. Kesal has been offering unique and a high impact experiential-based training solutions since then. Being the only public experiential based centre in Kenya, Kesal is gradually but consistently establishing herself as the institution of choice both in government and the private sector with attention to detail, quality work and years of industry experience.


&#160;Copyright &#169; 2014 The Star. All rights reserved. Distributed by AllAfrica Global Media (allAfrica.com).
To contact the copyright holder directly for corrections &#8212; or for permission to republish or make other authorized use of this material, click here.

AllAfrica publishes around 1,000 reports a day from more than 140 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.

Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, please Contact us.


More stories from this day&#187;


Related
East AfricaKenyaTravel


Follow AllAfrica


AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 1,000 news and information items daily from over 140 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Lagos, Monrovia, Nairobi and Washington DC.


&#169; 2016 AllAfricaPrivacyContact


Subscribe to AllAfrica via RSSFor Advertisers

AllAfrica - All the Time


