 Lions viewed on a wildlife safari.
Beautiful landscapes, incredible wildlife in their natural habitat, and a tropical Indian Ocean coastline are just a few of the widely recognized attractions in Kenya. There are tons of things to do in Kenya, from exploring the capital city of Nairobi, to going on safaris, and hanging out on Lake Victoria.


<em>Heading to Kenya? Book your hostel here</em>


Top 10 Things To Do In Kenya
1. Wildlife Safari
There&#8217;s nothing more famous about Kenya than going on a safari to one of the many national parks or reserves located throughout the country. The most famous wildlife viewing sanctuaries include Maasai Mara, Amboseli, Lake Nakuru and Tsavo East.


For many, the goal is to catch a glimpse of the African Big 5 which includes lion, leopard, elephant, buffalo and rhino.


Safaris can be on the expensive side, but going on a safari and observing African animals in their natural habitat is a once in a lifetime experience.


Wildebeest Migration
2. Witness the Wildbeest Migration
Maasai Mara game reserve in Kenya, along with the Serengeti in Tanzania, share the annual Wildebeest migration. The captivating event is one of the few natural land migrations that remains intact in the world today.


Every year, 1.5 million wildebeests and zebra migrate overland in search of food and water. The event takes place between May and June, depending on the rainy season.


3. Relax on the East African Coast
The East African Indian Ocean coast is one of the best places in the world to take it easy and enjoy a beach holiday.


Along with pristine stretches of white sand and swaying palms, the laid back attitude and friendly Kenyans along the coast add to the serenity. To check out the Kenyan coast, you might visit areas around Mombasa, Diani, Malindi or Kilifi.


4. Cultural Travel on the Island of Lamu
Just off the coast of Kenya is a small cultural island called Lamu. Over the course of hundreds of previous years, the island has been shaped by local Bantu African tribes, Arab traders and Portuguese explorers. The mix of cultures has created a fascinating history and a unique Swahili people and culture. Lamu includes one of the oldest inhabited cities in Kenya.


5. Climb Mount Kenya
Not nearly as popular as neighboring giant Mount Kilimanjaro, Mount Kenya remains Africa&#8217;s second tallest peak and is often considered a more challenging climb. The breathtaking scenery is marked by incredible views of Kenya and even great glimpses of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. Most trekkers summit Mount Kenya at Lenana Peak point.


6. Hike Through Hell&#8217;s Gate
Growing up in Kenya, one of my favorite things to do was take a trip with my friends to Hell&#8217;s Gate National Park.


The coolest thing about the park is that cycling and foot walking are permitted without needing a guide (and there are lions in the park!). The canyon gorge, jagged rock formations and opportunities for camping make Hell&#8217;s Gate a great place to visit in Kenya.


7. River Raft the Tana River
Whitewater rafting and kayaking on the Tana River in Kenya are becoming popular activities in the country. Not only are there adventurous river rapids, but also an opportunity to view Kenya&#8217;s nature from the river. The ecosystem and bird viewing while rafting through the valley are spectacular.


8. Hang Out on Lake Victoria
Kisumu is one of the choice cities in Kenya to visit that is located on the shores of Lake Victoria, the African great lake. From serene sunset views of the lake to the fresh fish and and laid back atmosphere, Kisumu is a pleasant town.


Ndere Island national park is a sanctuary of birds and other wildlife that is set up with hiking trails and a few campsites.


Explore Nairobi
9. Explore Nairobi
There&#8217;s no denying that Nairobi doesn&#8217;t always get the best reputation. Sure, there is crime within the city, but if you take the necessary precautions, visiting Nairobi will be a rewarding experience.


Nairobi is the largest city in Kenya and offers a mixed bag of historical museums, African tribal exhibitions, Kenyan street food, local markets, modern shopping malls, international and local restaurants, and even the Nairobi wildlife park on the outskirts of town. Be sure to check out these 101 things to do in Nairobi.


Eat Nyama Choma
10. Eat Nyama Choma
Everyone that can afford meat in Kenya enjoys a good dose of nyama choma every now and then. Nyama choma is Kenya&#8217;s version of roasted meat on the grill &#8211; most authentically prepared at roadside butcheries.


The normal procedure is to walk into the butchery, have the butcher slice a hunk of meat right off the carcass and let it roast as you wait sipping on a Kenyan Tusker. The most popular meat is goat, but beef and chicken are usually also available.


			thx this really helped with my hw


		Reply

		
