 Famous for its classic savanna safaris, Kenya is a country of dramatic extremes and classic contrasts. Deserts and alpine snows; forests and open plains; the metropolis of Nairobi and colorful tribal cultures; freshwater lakes and coral reefs. For many people, Kenya is East Africa in microcosm. The wildlife safaris have been the top tourist attractions in Kenya for decades while other activities include trekking Mount Kenya, ballooning over the Masai Mara and snorkeling in Malindi on the Indian Ocean coast.


10 Nairobi National Park  


Nairobi National Park is just a 10 minutes drive from the center of Nairobi with only a fence separating the park&#8217;s wildlife from the metropolis. Nairobi&#8217;s skyscrapers can be seen from the park. Despite its proximity to the city and the relative small size of the park, Nairobi National Park boasts a large and varied wildlife population. Migrating wildebeest and zebra gather in the park during the dry season, and it is one of Kenya&#8217;s most successful rhinoceros sanctuaries.


9 Malindi  


Malindi provides a very nice introduction to the coastal tourist attractions in Kenya with its extensive coral reefs and beautiful beaches. There are surfing, snorkeling, deep-sea fishing and other water sports. The Malindi Marine National Park is protected and has fine beaches clear water and very colorful fish. Malindi is served with a domestic airport and a highway between Mombasa and Lamu.


8 Mount Kenya  
flickr/John Spooner 

Mount Kenya is the highest mountain in Kenya and the second-highest in Africa, after Kilimanjaro. The mountain offers a beautiful sight. Its series of peaks are crowned with snow, and its slopes are covered with forest. The 5199 meter (17,057 ft) high summit is a difficult technical climb, several lowers peaks however are an easy destination for any fit trekker.


7 Samburu National Reserve  
flickr/Mainbube 

Samburu National Reserve is a very peaceful national park in Northern Kenya. It attracts wildlife because of the Uaso Nyiro River that runs through it and the mixture of forest and grassland vegetation. All three big cats, lion, cheetah and leopard, can be found here, as well as elephants, buffalo and hippos. The Uaso Nyiro River contains large numbers of Nile crocodile.


6 Hell's Gate National Park  
flickr/ninara 

Hell&#8217;s Gate National Park is a tiny park named after a narrow break in the cliffs, once a tributary of a prehistoric lake that fed early humans in the Rift Valley. It is unique among Kenya&#8217;s wildlife parks, as you are allowed to walk or cycle without a guide. There&#8217;s dramatic scenery, with steep cliffs, gorges and basalt columns. The national park is home to a wide variety of wildlife, though many are few in number. Examples of little seen wildlife include lions, leopards, and cheetahs.


5 Lamu Island  
flickr/Cessna 206 

Lamu Island is a part of Kenya&#8217;s Lamu Archipelago, and has managed to stay unspoiled and untouched by the mass tourism that has hit much of Kenya&#8217;s coastline. As the oldest living town in Kenya, Lamu Town has retained all the charm and character built up over centuries. There are no roads on Lamu Island, just alleyways and footpaths, and therefore, there are few motorized vehicles on the island. Residents move about on foot or by boat, and donkeys are used to transport goods and materials.


Where to Stay in Lamu Island


4 Tsavo National Park  
flickr/alles-schlumpf 

Tsavo is the largest national park in Kenya and one of the largest in the world. Due to its size the park was divided into Tsavo West and Tsavo East. The Tsavo West has spectacular scenery with a rolling volcanic landscape while Tsavo East has more open savannah than its western sibling. Tsavo National Park is the ideal destination in Kenya for people who seek solitude and privacy as well as the chance to explore the wilderness.


3 Lake Nakuru  
flickr/daretothink 

Lake Nakuru is a very shallow lake in central Kenya. The lake&#8217;s abundance of algae attracts vast quantities of lesser flamingos, sometimes more than one million at once. Often called the greatest bird spectacle on earth, the flamingos are one of Kenya&#8217;s top attractions. Sadly, in recent years the number of flamingos at Lake Nakuru has been decreasing, due to environmental degradation and pollution.


2 Amboseli National Park  
flickr/Jim Gleeson 

Amboseli National Park is a relatively small park located close to the Tanzania border at the foot of Africa&#8217;s highest mountain, Mount Kilimanjaro. The park is famous for being the best place in Africa to get close to free-ranging elephants. Other attractions of the Amboseli National Park include opportunities to meet the Maasai people and spectacular views of Mount Kilimanjaro.


Where to Stay in Amboseli National Park


1 Masai Mara National Reserve  


The Masai Mara National Reserve is one of the top tourist attractions in Kenya and the country&#8217;s most popular game park. Each year the Masai Mara National Reserve is visited by thousands of tourists who come here to watch the exceptional population of game and the annual migration of zebra and wildebeest. The &#8220;Great Migration&#8221; takes place every year from July to October when millions of wildebeest and zebra migrate from the Serengeti in Tanzania.


Where to Stay in Masai Mara National Reserve


More Kenya tourist attractions can be found in the Explore Kenya page.


&#160;Loading ...


	Related Travel Lists


			As always, so informative and additionally useful information


			Traveling to Kenya, especially the Masia Mara is one of my dreams. Earlier this year I was fortunate to travel most of Namibia. So, that dream realized. Next will definitely be Kenya. We must do these things before nothing is left.


			My friends and I are planning to come to kenya next year (2013), can&#8217;t wait.


			kenya is my country and i love it very much. my dream is to be become a tour guide to guide you to these beautiful resource in kenya


			I am studying tour guide I can&#8217;t wait to go on practice


			I am studying tour guiding and cannot wait to visit the fascinating wild Kenya.


			kenya is one of the best places to go in a lifetime, the variety of animals in their natural habitats and the beautiful beaches attract a lot of tourists from all over the world. Beholding the wildebeest migration in Masai mara and Serengeti should be in everybody&#8217;s to-do list


			even though we are losing our wildlife at a devastating rate i have always been hopeful that the time has come for us to implement the new wildlife policies and save our wildlife hence continue enjoying the flow of the revenue. it is and it has been my prayer to conserve the nature of our nation


			i couldnt have been born in a better country.kenya is a beautiful place to be.am a proud kenyan


			Kenya is the best country I&#8217;ve been to great fun.


			kenya is spetacular#studied tour guide and i love my job


			Kenya is like a mini earth.from snow in the mt.kenya peak,tropical forests in nyanza,vast deserts in the northern frontier..the list continues.am so proud to be kenyan


			Having been in the travel industry for about 8 yrs now,i believe Kenya is among the top travel destinations&#8230;it offers quite a variety of destinations from just day trips ,short trips and definately the long safaris which gives you an opportunity to learn much about kenya.


			KENYA,is a great country and beautiful one having the most spetacular sceneries in the world and its peaceful nature &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;..if you visit malindi ,maasai mara and mt kenya you may think you are in another universe of its own because you cant believe what you see&#8230;.,i love kenya


			Kenya is indeed a spectacular and breathtaking place to visit in the Heart of Africa. We love you, and wish you a safe journey and good health as you plan for a visit. You will definitely experience the hospitality and warmth more than you expected. Proud to be a Kenyan Soldier. I love my country, and together we can make this world a better sustainable world. God Bless Kenya, God bless you!!


			Kenya is absolutely an amazing country,  its so beautiful, breathtaking and eccentric. What has made Kenya so special is the diverse wildlife, the beaches, the Kenyan Mountain and  off course its pleasant weather. One important thing about Kenyan people I have found out, I think Kenyan people in general are humble and absolute genuine. God have blessed them all. I really love Kenya the country itself and the wonderful people. I&#8217;m actually studying Travel &amp; Tourism. I&#8217;m really looking forward to see it.        Hazjar Iraqi


