  Top 10 Places to See in Ireland
      Travel Tips   
   Michele Norfleet, studioD    
 
      
  The Cliffs of Moher offer visitors a spectacular view.   (Photo: NA/AbleStock.com/Getty Images )  

  
   Related Articles The Best Things to See in Ireland What Is Ireland's Weather Like in Late August and Early September? Top 5 Major Landforms of Ireland Top-Rated Escorted Tours in Ireland    Ireland is a land of incredible landscapes, castles and spectacular geological formations. The history of the country dates back more than 6,000 years, giving rise to myths and legends. In Ireland, you can tour castles and manors, visit ancient ruins or sit in a pub listening to tales as you enjoy a pint of ale. Ireland is a small country, about the size of the state of Virginia, but it is filled with interesting places to visit.

 
  Dublin The Guinness Storehouse (guinness-storehouse.com), situated on the site of the original Guinness brewery, is a popular attraction in Dublin. Although visitors are not allowed to tour the brewery, a guide is available to give visitors the history of the dark stout, how it is made and how it became Ireland's best known export. Visitors can view exhibits, learn how to pour the perfect pint and sample a pint of Guinness. Dublin Castle (dublincastle.ie) dates to the 13th century, although it has been rebuilt several times. It served as a military fortress, a prison, a treasury, a court of law and the seat of English Administration in Ireland for 700 years. Today, it is used for state receptions. Trinity College Dublin (tcd.ie) is Ireland's most prestigious college. It was founded in 1592 by Queen Elizabeth I and still contains many buildings that are centuries old. The Book of Kells, a ninth century gospel manuscript, is on display at the Library. The origin of the book is attributed to Irish monks during the Dark Ages. Visitors to the college can also view the Long Room, which houses 200,000 of the library's oldest volumes.

 
  North Northern Ireland's most famous landmark is The Giant's Causeway (northantrim.com), a UNESCO World Heritage Site, lying beneath the cliffs of the Antrim Coast. The geological formation was formed between 50 and 60 million years ago by volcanic activity. The causeway is a promontory of neatly packed hexagonal columns of basalt rock resembling stepping stones extending out from the cliffs. The causeway is the subject of the Irish legend of Finn MacCool, a giant warrior said to be commander of Ireland's armies. According to the legend he built the causeway to reach Scotland. Today, only the ends of the causeway remain in Ireland and Scotland.

 
  West The Cliffs of Moher (cliffsofmoher.com) are one of Ireland's most spectacular sights and top visitor attractions near the village of Liscannon in western Ireland. The cliffs are five miles long and rise 700 feet above the crashing waves of the sea. An observation tower on the highest point of the cliffs gives an unobstructed views of the Aran Islands and Galway Bay. A large population of puffins inhabit the cliffs. The Burren is south of Galway in County Clare. The geological formations were created in the last Ice Age as a result of glacial activity. It is the largest karstic limestone area in western Europe. The area contains underground rivers, lakes, caverns and chambers, one of which is open to the public for exploration. Archeological sites found here include megalithic tombs, Celtic crosses, a Cistercian Abbey ruin and 60 wedge tombs. The burial chambers are older than the Egyptian pyramids, dating to 6,000 years ago. Botanists are attracted to the assortment of unusual and rare plants in the area. Bunratty Castle (shannonheritage.com), overlooking the River Shannon, is one of Ireland's top attractions. It was a stronghold of the O'Brien Clan, dating to 1425. The castle was purchased in 1954, restored and opened to the public in 1960. The castle houses the finest collection of medieval furniture in the country. Today, visitors can participate in Medieval banquets held each night at the castle.

 
  Southeast In southeast Ireland, the Rock of Cashel (cashel.ie) towers over the town of Cashel from a 200-foot high outcrop of limestone. This historical site, once the seat of the Kings of Munster, was visited by St. Patrick in 450 A.D. In the 10th century, Brian Boru was crowned here. It is called "the most spectacular archeological site in Ireland." Stone walls encircle the remains of a stone tower, a 13th century Gothic cathedral, a 12th century Romanesque chapel and an abbey.

 
  Southwest The Blarney Castle (blarneycastle.ie), in County Cork, is one of Ireland's oldest castles, and one of the most visited tourist sites. The main attraction here is the Blarney Stone, which is embedded in the battlements at the top of the castle. According to legend, if you kiss the stone you will get the 'gift of gab', giving you the power to talk your way into and out of any situation. The Lakes of Killarney are in County Kerry in a valley surrounded by mountains in Killarney National Park. Tours of the three lakes are available by boat, bus, car, bicycle or pony, taking you to the most scenic views on the lakes. Muckross House (muckross-house.ie), a Victorian mansion just outside of Killarney, has views of Killarney National Park, azalea gardens, a water garden and a rock garden.

 
    References  Visit Dublin: Points of InterestGuinness Storehouse: Inside the StorehouseGuide to Castles of Europe: Irish Castles 
  Resources  My Guide Ireland: Top 10 Places to Visit in IrelandChoose Ireland: Top 10 Places to VisitIrish Central: Top 10 Places to See in IrelandIreland Travel Guide: Best Places to Visit in Ireland 
  About the Author  Michele Norfleet is a freelance writer who writes on travel, home and garden and education topics. She has coauthored a handbook for teachers on school-wide discipline and has contributed tips for special-needs students in the basal curriculum for RCL Benziger. Norfleet holds a master's degree from Southern Illinois University and has experience as a special-needs teacher and speech pathologist.

 
  Photo Credits   NA/AbleStock.com/Getty Images  
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  What Are The Traditional Foods Eaten in Ireland? What Should I Take on My Trip to Ireland? Women's Tours in Ireland Tips on Moving to Ireland What to Bring on a Trip to Ireland What is the Best Castle in Ireland?   Travel Tips Articles  The Best Time to Vacation in Ireland What to Pack for a Trip to Ireland in September How to Tour Ireland &amp; Scotland "Accommodations in Armagh, Northern Ireland" Vacation Places in Ireland Tips on Traveling to Ireland Climate in Ireland at the End of October How to Plan an Itinerary for a Self Drive Vacation in Ireland Cheapest Times to Travel to Ireland "Accommodations in Ennis, Ireland"   Test Your Knowledge    Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?     Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge     Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
