 
    
  Travel AgentsB&amp;B VouchersCustomer ReviewsSpecial OffersAttractionsHome 
 
  Self Drive ToursEscorted Bus ToursIrish Castles &amp; ManorsGroup ToursGolf ToursIrish Honeymoons 
 
 
    Call us now to talk through your vacation options!  USA &amp; Canada Toll-Free
1877 298 7205 UK FreeFone
0800 096 9438 International
+353 69 77686  
 

     Call us now to talk through your Vacation options! 
  USA &amp; Canada Toll-Free 1877 298 7205

 
  UK FreeFone 0800 096 9438

 
  International +353 69 77686

 
  &#160; 
 
   
HomeAttractions


Must See Attractions in Ireland


For such a small country, the Island of Ireland has more than its fair share of Must-See Attractions, from picturesque landscapes to history and culture laden cities, towns and villages. Browse the catagories below to see many of the sightseeing opportunities that Ireland has to offer. 

Your dedicated travel advisor will be happy fit any number of the attractions you wish to visit into your customiszed tour of Ireland.


Types of Attractions in Ireland


Cities &amp; TownsExhibits &amp; ToursFestivalsGolf CoursesHistoric Sites &amp; BuildingsMuseums &amp; Art GalleriesNational Parks &amp; GardensPubs &amp; MusicScenic AttractionsShows &amp; EntertainmentFamily Friendly Attractions


Most Popular Attractions in Ireland


Aran Islands
The Aran Islands are a group of three islands located at the mouth of  Galway Bay, on the west coast of Ireland. The largest island is  Inishmore; the middle and second-largest is Inishmaan and the smallest  and most eastern is Inisheer. Irish is a spoken language on all three  islands, and is the language used naming the islands and their villages  and townlands. Take a short ferry ride to Inis Mor, the largest of the three Aran  Islands, and island rich in the language, culture and heritage of  Ireland, unique in its geology and archaeology and in its long tradition  of gentle hospitality. Here is a place to sense the spirit of Gaelic Ireland, to touch the  past, but with all the comforts and facilities of the present. Aran will  take you back to an Ireland of Celts and Early Christians....read more


Belfast
Belfast (from the Irish: B&#233;al Feirste meaning "Mouth of the (River) Farset")is the capital city of Northern Ireland and the seat of devolved government and legislative assembly in Northern Ireland. It is the largest urban area in Northern Ireland and the province of Ulster, the fifteenth-largest city in the United Kingdom and the second largest city on the island of Ireland.&#160;The city suffered greatly during the period of disruption, conflict, and destruction called the Troubles, but latterly has undergone a return to a sustained period of calmness and growth. Originally a town in County Antrim, the county borough of Belfast was created when it was granted city status by Queen Victoria in 1888. The name, Belfast, is the anglicised version of the Irish B&#233;al Feirste, which ...read more


Blarney Castle
Blarney Castle is a medieval stronghold in Blarney, near Cork,  Ireland. It is near the River Martin. The castle originally dates from  before AD 1200. It was destroyed in 1446, but subsequently rebuilt by  Cormac MacCarthy, the King of Munster. It is currently a partial ruin  with some accessible rooms and the battlements. There are many legends  as to the origin of the stone, but some say that it was the Lia F&#225;il&#8212;a  magical stone upon which Irish kings were crowned.The Blarney Stone is a  block of bluestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle,  Blarney about 8 km from Cork, Ireland. According to legend, kissing the  stone endows the kisser with the gift of gab (great eloquence or skill  at flattery). The stone was set into a tower of the castle in 1446. The  castle ...read more


Bunratty Castle &amp; Folk Park
Bunratty Castle (Irish: Caisle&#225;n Bhun Raithe, meaning Castle at the  Mouth of the Ratty) is a large tower house in County Clare, Ireland. It  lies in the centre of Bunratty village (Irish: Bun R&#225;ite), by the N18  road between Limerick and Ennis, near Shannon Town and its airport. The  name Bunratty, Bun Raite (or possibly, Bun na Raite) in Irish, means the  'bottom' or end of the 'Ratty' river. This river, alongside the castle,  flows into the nearby Shannon estuary. From the top of the castle, one  can look over to the estuary and the airport. Bunratty Castle is now a very popular tourist attraction. The  interior has been furnished by Lord Gort with tapestries and artifacts  from various eras in the castle's history. Some of the sights include  the 'great hall', dungeons an...read more


Burren
The Burren is a unique karst-landscape region in northwest County  Clare, in Ireland and one of the largest Karst landscapes in Europe. The  region measures approximately 250 square kilometres and is enclosed  roughly within the circle comprised by the villages Ballyvaughan,  Kinvara, Tubber, Corofin, Kilfenora and Lisdoonvarna, It is bounded by  the Atlantic and Galway Bay on the west and north respectively. Strictly  speaking the territory of the Burren or barony of Burren only contains  the villages of Lisdoonvarna, Ballyvaughan, Fanore, Craggagh, New  Quay/Burrin, Bealaclugga (Bellharbour) and Carron. The definite article (making it "the Burren") has only been added to  the name in the last few decades, possibly by academics, as it had  always been called Boireann in Irish and Burren i...read more


Carrick-a-Rede Rope Bridge
Carrick-a-Rede Rope Bridge is a rope suspension bridge near,  Ballintoy, County Antrim, Northern Ireland. The bridge links the  mainland to the tiny Carrick Island. The site is owned and maintained by  the National Trust, spans twenty metres and is thirty metres above the  rocks below. Today the bridge is mainly a tourist attraction, with  227,000 visitors in 2007. The bridge is now taken down every year in  late October or early November, depending on weather conditions, having  been put up in March. Carrick-a-rede means 'rock in the road'. It is thought salmon  fishermen have been erecting bridges to the island for over 350 years.  It has taken many forms over the years. In the 1970s it featured only a  single handrail and large gaps between the slats. A version of the  bridge, tested up...read more


Ceide Fields Visitor Centre
The C&#233;ide Fields is an area situated on the north Mayo coast in the west of Ireland. This location contains one of the oldest known field systems in the world. Using various dating methods, it was discovered that the creation and development of the C&#233;ide Fields goes back some five thousand years. This dates them before the building of the pyramids of Egypt and Stonehenge. The C&#233;ide Fields Visitors Centre in North Mayo will certainly give you a unique experience. For this is not just another archaeological monument or visitor centre. Here you can indulge yourself in a vast prehistoric landscape, a natural wild ecology of blanket bog, dramatic cliffs and coastline, and a much acclaimed building, which has received Ireland's most prestigious architectural award. The disco...read more


Christ Church Cathedral
Christ Church Cathedral in Dublin is the elder of the city's two  medi&#230;val cathedrals, the other being St. Patrick's Cathedral. It is  officially claimed as the seat (cathedra) of both the Church of Ireland  and Roman Catholic archbishops of Dublin. In practice it has been the  cathedral of only the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, since the  Irish Reformation. Though nominally claimed as his cathedral, the Roman  Catholic Archbishop of Dublin uses a church elsewhere, St Mary's in  Malborough Street in Dublin, as his pro-cathedral (acting cathedral). Christ Church Cathedral is located in the former heart of mediaeval  Dublin, next to Wood Quay, at the end of Dame Street . However a major  dual carriage-way building scheme around it separated it from the  original mediaeval str...read more


Cliffs of Moher
The Cliffs of Moher (Irish: Aillte an Mhothair, lit. cliffs of the  ruin, also known as the Cliffs of Coher from the Irish: Mhothair) are  located in the parish of Liscannor at the south-western edge of The  Burren area near Doolin, which is located in County Clare, Ireland. The cliffs rise 120 meters (394 ft) above the Atlantic Ocean at Hag's  Head, and reach their maximum height of 214 meters (702 ft) just north  of O'Brien's Tower, eight kilometres away. The cliffs boast one of  Ireland's most spectacular views. On a clear day the Aran Islands are  visible in Galway Bay, as are the valleys and hills of Connemara. O'Brien's Tower is a round stone tower at the approximate midpoint of  the cliffs. It was built by Sir Cornelius O'Brien, a descendant of  Ireland's High King Brian Boru, in 18...read more


Cobh Heritage Centre
The Cobh Heritage Centre provides information on life in Ireland  through the 18th and 19th centuries, the mass emigration, the Great  Famine, and on how criminals were transported to Australia for petty  crimes. It also has an exhibition on the history of the RMS Titanic,  whose last port of call before it sank was C&#243;bh (then Queenstown). From 1848 - 1950 over 6 million adults and children emigrated from  Ireland - over 2.5 million departed from Cobh, making it the single most  important port of emigration. This exodus from Ireland was largely as a result of poverty, crop  failures, the land system and a lack of opportunity. Irish emigration  reached unprecedented proportions during the famine as people fled from  hunger and disease. Many famine emigrants went initially to British ...read more


Conor Pass
The Conor Pass is the highest mountain pass in Ireland. It is situated  on the Dingle Peninsula in County Kerry, on the road that crosses the  peninsula between Dingle Town and the coast the other side. The  Mountains the Pass crosses are the Brandon Mountains and contain  Ireland's second highest peak Brandon Mountain at 3127 ft. From Dingle  Town the road runs some 4&#189; miles rising to 1500 ft as it winds its way  to the pass. There are wonderful views of the coast. At the Pass there  is a carpark where you are confronted with this magnificent sight. The  road then carries on down towards Brandon Bay past cliffs, a waterfall  and lakes ...read more


Dingle Peninsula
There are so many things to see, to do, to explore, to experience on  the Dingle Peninsula . . . from almost 2,000 archaeological sites, to  more walking than you could fit into a year, to Fungie, a bottlenose  dolphin who's been living at the mouth of Dingle Harbour since 1984. There is no other landscape in western Europe with the density and  variety of archaeological monuments as the Dingle Peninsula. This  mountainous finger of land which juts into the Atlantic Ocean has  supported various tribes and populations for almost 6,000 years. Because  of the peninsula's remote location, and lack of specialised  agriculture, there is a remarkable preservation of over 2,000 monuments. It is impossible to visit the Dingle Peninsula and not be impressed  by its archaeological heritage. When one ...read more


Doolin
A small fishing village, also known as Fisherstreet, on a sandy bay some 3km from Aill na Searrach, the northern end of the Cliffs of Moher. Doolin is world-famous for its wealth of Irish folk music and in recent years has been attracting crowds to spontaneous sessions and festivals or 'fleadhanna' of Irish and international music. Lots of music pubs and restaurants.&#160;Overlooked by Doonagore Castle, an unusual circular tower within a walled bawn enclosure, which has been restored as a residence. Nearer the sea, Iron Age burial mounds dot the surrounding landscape. One of Doolin's claims to fame is that it is the main setting for the PlayStation 3 game Folklore. According to the game's storyline, the Netherworld, the world of the dead is a realm that can only be accessed from one place ...read more


Dublin
Dublin is both the largest city and capital of Ireland. It is located near the midpoint of Ireland's east coast, at the mouth of the River Liffey and at the centre of the Dublin Region. Founded as a Viking settlement, the city has been Ireland's primary city for most of the island's history since medieval times. Today, it is an economic, administrative and cultural centre for the island of Ireland and has one of the fastest growing populations of any European capital city. The city has a world-famous literary history, having produced many prominent literary figures, including Nobel laureates William Butler Yeats, George Bernard Shaw and Samuel Beckett. Other influential writers and playwrights from Dublin include Oscar Wilde, Jonathan Swift and the creator of Dracula, Bram Stoker. It is ar...read more


Dublin Castle
Dublin Castle (Irish: Caisle&#225;n Bhaile &#193;tha Cliath) off Dame Street,  Dublin, Ireland, is a major Irish governmental complex, formerly the  fortified seat of British rule in Ireland until 1922. Most of the  complex dates from the 18th century, though a castle has stood on the  site since the days of King John, the first Lord of Ireland. The Castle  served as the seat of English, then later British government of Ireland  under the Lordship of Ireland (1171&#8211;1541), the Kingdom of Ireland  (1541&#8211;1800), and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland  (1800&#8211;1922). Upon establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922, the  complex was ceremonially handed over to the newly formed Provisional  Government led by Michael Collins. Dublin Castle fulfilled a number of r...read more


Dublinia
Dublinia Museum in Ireland is a heritage centre located in the heart of the medieval city of Dublin, Irelands capital city. There are three exciting exhibitions in Dublinia and a must see for any Vacation in Ireland. Viking Dublin takes the visitor back to life in the city in Viking times. See what life was like onboard a Viking warship, visit a Viking house and take a trip down a Viking street. Investigate burial customs explore the Viking legacy and much more. Our Medieval Dublin exhibition includes a busy medieval market, a rich merchant&#8217;s house, and a noisy medieval street. Find out about death and disease and see what Medieval Dublin looked like with a fascinating scale model of the town. History Hunters brings our exhibitions full circle and shows the visitor how we know about ...read more


Dun Aengus
D&#250;n Aengus is the most famous of several prehistoric forts on the  Aran Islands, of Co. Galway. Ireland. It is located on Inishmore at the  edge of a 100-metre high cliff. D&#250;n Aengus is an important  archaeological site that also offers a spectacular view. It was built  during the Bronze Age and dates from 1,000 B.C. or before. It has been  called "the most magnificent barbaric monument in Europe." The name "D&#250;n  Aengus" meaning "Fort of Aengus" refers to the pre-Christian god of the  same name described in Irish mythology. The fort consists of a series of four concentric walls of dry stone  construction. Surviving stonework is four metres wide at some points.  The original shape was presumably oval or D-shaped but part of the cliff  and fort have since collapsed into ...read more


Gap of Dunloe
The Gap of Dunloe is a beautiful glacial valley in the Macgillacuddy  Reeks mountain range, which dominate the skyline of Killarney. Here you  may enjoy an energetic walk or cycle its rough path. The scenery all  around the famousLakes of Killarneyis breathtaking and there are many  viewing points around the lakes as you see above. The three main lakes of Killarney occupy a broad valley stretching  south between the mountains. The three lakes and the mountains that  surround them are all within the Killarney National Park. The Lower Lake  is nearest to the town, it is studded with islands and has Muckross  Abbey and Ross Castle on its eastern shore. Why not take the Gap of Dunloe Trip, by horseback or pony and trap  through the Gap, and then by boat across the Killarney lake to Ross  Castl...read more


Giants Causeway
The Giant's Causeway (or Irish: Cloch&#225;n na bhF&#243;mharach) is an area of  about 40,000 interlocking basalt columns, the result of an ancient  volcanic eruption. It is located on the northeast coast of Northern  Ireland, about two miles (3 km) north of the town of Bushmills. It was  declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1986, and a National Nature  Reserve in 1987 by the Department of the Environment for Northern  Ireland. In a 2005 poll of Radio Times readers, the Giant's Causeway was  named as the fourth greatest natural wonder in the United Kingdom. The  tops of the columns form stepping stones that lead from the cliff foot  and disappear under the sea. Most of the columns are hexagonal, although  there are also some with four, five, seven and eight sides. The tallest  a...read more


Guinness Storehouse
The Guinness Storehouse is located in the heart of the St. James's  Gate Brewery in Dublin, and is, according to the Guiness Storehouse Web  site, Ireland&#8217;s No. 1 international visitor attraction. Since opening  in November 2000, Guinness Storehouse has attracted over 4 million  visitors from every corner of the globe. The Storehouse is laid out over seven floors surrounding a glass  atrium taking the shape of a pint of Guinness. On the ground floor the  massive exhibit introduces you to the four ingredients; water, barley,  hops and yeast, all of which combine together to make a pint of  Guinness. Visitors are also introduced to the fifth and vital  ingredient, Arthur Guinness himself. As the visitor moves up through the building, they next encounter an  exhibition on the history of...read more


Killarney
This little town is world-famous due to its exquisite location beside lakes and mountains.Take a horse-drawn jaunting car ride through the grounds of the Killarney National Park to Muckross House and Gardens. Tour the house with a local guide to learn about the history and lifestyles of previous owners and perhaps stroll through the gardens on the shores of Muckross Lake.&#160;As well as being a perfect location from which to explore the south western region of Ireland, for centuries the Killarney Valley has been recognised far and wide as Ireland's most beautiful destination - being aptly titled as "Heaven's Reflex". It inspired Poet Laureate Alfred Austin to write - "If mountain, wood and water harmoniously blent, constitute the most perfect and adequate loveliness that nature presents, ...read more


Kilmainham Gaol
Kilmainham Gaol (Irish: Pr&#237;os&#250;n Chill Mhaighneann) is a former  prison, located in Kilmainham in Dublin, which is now a museum. It has  been run since the mid-1980s by the Office of Public Works (O.P.W.), an  Irish Government agency. Kilmainham Gaol has played an important part in Irish history, as  many leaders of Irish rebellions were imprisoned and some executed in  the jail. The jail has also been used as a set for several films. When it was first built in 1796, Kilmainham Gaol was called the 'New  Gaol' to distinguish it from the old jail it was intended to replace - a  noisome dungeon, just a few hundred metres from the present site. It  was officially called the County of Dublin Gaol, and was originally run  by the Grand Jury for County Dublin. Over the 140 years it se...read more


Muckross House, Gardens &amp; Traditional Farms 
This nineteenth century Victorian mansion is set against the stunning beauty of Killarney National Park. The house stands close to the shores of Muckross Lake, one of Killarney's three lakes, famed world wide for their splendour and beauty. As a focal point within Killarney National Park, Muckross House is the ideal base from which to explore this landscape.Muckross House was built for Henry Arthur Herbert and his wife, the water-colourist Mary Balfour Herbert. This was actually the fourth house that successive generations of the Herbert family had occupied at Muckross over a period of almost two hundred years. William Burn, the well-known Scottish architect, was responsible for its design. Building commenced in 1839 and was completed in 1843.Originally it was intended that Muckross House ...read more


Old Bushmills Distillery
In 2008, Bushmills celebrates 400 years of local distilling history&#8230;a  unique, unbroken whiskey-making tradition still very much alive today  at the Old Bushmills Distillery. Just two miles from the spectacular  Giant&#8217;s Causeway, the distillery lies in an area of outstanding natural  beauty which is rich in history and folklore. At Bushmills, the visitor  can observe the craft and skills of making Irish whiskey. The guided  tour includes the ingredients and processes, spring water from Saint  Columb&#8217;s Rill and the finest malted barley, to the art of triple  distillation in copper stills and ageing in oak casks. Of course, no  visit would be complete without enjoying a complimentary glass of  Bushmills whiskey. Today, Bushmills is a well known name for smooth,  distinctiv...read more


Ring of Kerry
Admire breathtaking vistas of mountains, cliffs and beaches on Ireland&#8217;s most popular drive, the 100-mile Ring of Kerry. Starting from Killarney, heading around the Iveragh Peninsula and  passing through Kenmare, Sneem, Waterville (favourite holiday spot of  Charlie Chaplin that now has a statue of him to commemorate his love of  the place), Cahersiveen and Killorglin. Popular points include Muckross  House (near Killarney), Staigue stone fort and Derrynane House, home of  Daniel O'Connell. Just south of Killarney, Ross Castle, Lough Leane, and  Ladies View (a panoramic viewpoint), all located within Killarney  National Park, are major attractions located along the Ring. The  complete list of major attractions along the Ring of Kerry includes: Gap  of Dunloe, Bog Village, Rossbeigh B...read more


Titanic Walk
The Titanic Trail is a guided tour around the streets and environs of  Cobh, revealing locations and incidents directly connected to the  Titanic and many other aspects of the port's history. The actual  building in which the White Star Line Cobh Oark Office was is visited.  The very pier where Titanic passengers departed is seen. St. Colmans  Cathedral, the Holy Ground, and the site of the landing of Lusitania  victims are all pointed out to the visitor and interspersed with a  multitude of emigrant, military and maritime history. The trail brings the whole era of Sailing Ships, departing emigrants  (almost 3 million left from Cobh) and great military fleets to life in a  way that leaves a lasting impression on the visitor. ...read more


Trinity College &amp; Book of Kells
Trinity is located in the centre of Dublin, Ireland, on College Green  opposite the former Irish Houses of Parliament (now a branch of the  Bank of Ireland). The campus occupies 190,000m&#178; (47 acres), with many  buildings, both old and new, ranged around large courts (known as  "squares") and two playing fields. The Library of Trinity College is a  copyright library for Ireland and the United Kingdom, containing over  4.5 million books and significant quantities of maps, manuscripts and  music. The Library of Trinity College is the largest research library in  Ireland. As a result of its historic standing, Trinity is a legal  deposit library (as per Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003) for the United  Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and has a similar  standing in Irish law....read more


Trinity College Dublin &amp; Book of Kells
Known as one of the oldest and most famous universities in Ireland, Trinity College Dublin is located in the centre of our capital city, Dublin, Ireland, on College Green opposite the former Irish Houses of Parliament (now a branch of the Bank of Ireland). The College was founded by Queen Elizabeth I in 1592 and among its famous graduates are Samuel Beckett, Oscar Wilde and Jonathan Swift.  The campus occupies 190,000m&#194;&#178; (47 acres), with many buildings, both old and new, ranged around large courts (known as "squares") and two playing fields. The Library of Trinity College is a copyright library for Ireland and the United Kingdom, containing over 4.5 million books and significant quantities of maps, manuscripts and music....read more


Aras an Uachtarain
The original house was designed by park ranger and amateur architect,  Nathaniel Clements in the mid eighteenth century. It was bought by the  administration of the British Lord Lieutenant of Ireland to become his  summer residence in the 1780s. His official residence was in the  Viceregal Apartments in Dublin Castle. The house in the park later  became the Viceregal Lodge, the "out of season" residence of the Lord  Lieutenant (also known as the Viceroy), where he lived for most of the  year from the 1820s onwards. During the Social Season (January to St.  Patrick's Day in March) he lived in state in Dublin Castle. The house was left empty for some years, until the office of  President of Ireland was created in 1937. In 1938, the first President,  Douglas Hyde lived there temporarily while...read more


Bantry House &amp; Gardens
Bantry House (originally called 'Blackrock') was constructed in about  1700 on the South side of Bantry Bay. In 1750, Councillor Richard White  bought Blackrock from Samuel Hutchinson and changed the name to  Seafield. The Whites had settled on Whiddy Island across the Bay in the  late 17th century, after having originally been merchants in Limerick.  The family prospered and considerable purchases of land were made in the  area surrounding the house. By the 1780s, Bantry House comprised some  80,000 acres (320 km&#178;) (though much of this would not be arable). The  house has been open to tourism since 1946. The gardens of Bantry House were developed by the second Earl of  Bantry and his wife Mary. Inspiration was taken from their travels  across Europe. The gardens contain seven terrace...read more


Blasket Centre
The Great Blasket Centre on the mainland in D&#250;n Chaoin, on the tip of  the Dingle Peninsula, is an interpretative centre / museum honouring  the unique community who once lived on the Great Blasket Island. This  community produced an extraordinary amount of literature, referred to as  The Blasket Library, which includes classics such as The Islandman,  Twenty Years A Growing and Peig. The centre, which is operated by the  Office of Public Works, was opened in 1993 and overlooks the panorama of  the Great Blasket and its family of surrounding islands. The Blasket Islands (Na Blascaoda&#237; in Irish - etymology uncertain: it  may come from the Norse word "brasker", meaning "a dangerous place")  are a group of islands off the west coast of Ireland, forming part of  County Kerry. The...read more


Chester Beatty Library 
The Chester Beatty Library was established in Dublin in 1950 to house the collections of mining magnate, Sir Alfred Chester Beatty. The present library, on the grounds of Dublin Castle, opened on February 7th 2000, the 125th anniversary of Sir Alfred's birth and was named European Museum of the Year in 2002. The Library's exhibitions open a window on the artistic treasures of the great cultures and religions of the world. The rich collection from countries across Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and Europe offers visitors a visual feast. The Library's collections are displayed in two collections: "Sacred Traditions" and "Artistic Traditions". Both displays exhibit manuscripts, miniature paintings, prints, drawings, rare books and some decorative arts from the Islamic, East Asian and Wes...read more


Connemara National Park
Connemara National Park (Irish: P&#225;irc Naisi&#250;nta Chonamara) is one of six National Parks in Ireland that are managed by the National Parks and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Environment, Heritage and local government. It is located in the west of Ireland within County Galway. Connemara National Park was founded and opened to the public in 1980. It features 29.57 square kilometres of mountains, bogs, heaths, grasslands and forests. The entrance is situated on the Clifden side of Letterfrack. There are many remnants of human civilization within the park. There is a 19th century graveyard as well as 4,000 year old megalithic court tombs. Much of the land was once part of the Kylemore Abbey estate. Western blanket bog and heathland are the most common vegetation of Conn...read more


Crag Cave &amp; Kingdom Falconry 
Crag Cave is a colourful wonderland of Stalagmites and Stalactites. It is one of the longest cave systems in Ireland, with a total surveyed length of 3.80kms The existence of the cave was known locally for years, but it was only discovered by cavers in the 1983. Kingdom Falconry offers visitors the unique opportunity to get up close and personal with a variety of majestic and awe-inspiring birds of prey - hawks, falcons and owls. The birds of prey will provide an educational and entertaining experience....read more


Croagh Patrick
Since as far back as 3,000 BC, Croagh Patrick (Saint Patrick&#226;&#128;&#153;s Mountain) has been known as a place of worship. Dating back to the time of Saint Patrick who apparently fasted and had penance here for 40 days and 40 nights. It is also said that it is here at Croagh Patrick where St Patrick our patron saint banished the snakes from Ireland forever!...read more


Desmond Castle / Wine Museum
Desmond Castle (Irish: Caisle&#225;n Deasmhumhan) is a tower house located  in the town of Kinsale in County Cork, Ireland. It was built as the  Customs House for Kinsale about the year 1500 by Maurice FitzGerald, 9th  Earl of Desmond, following the grant of the customs of the port of  Kinsale to the Earls of Desmond by King Henry VII in 1497. Presumably  there must have been an earlier structure on the site as the 1st Earl  was Captain of Desmond Castle. It was used as a Customs House until 1641 when it was converted into a  naval prison, following the construction of a new Customs House. The  prisoners kept in the Castle were in the main French and Spanish, and  the building became known locally as the "French Prison" as a result. In January 1747, a fire broke out, killing 54 of the pr...read more


Dublin Writers Museum
The Irish literary tradition is one of the most illustrious in the world, famous for four Nobel prize winners and for many other writers of international renown. &#160;In 1991 the Dublin Writers Museum was opened to house a history and celebration of literary Dublin. Situated in a magnificent eighteenth century mansion in the north city centre, the collection features the lives and works of Dublin&#8217;s literary celebrities over the past three hundred years. &#160;Swift and Sheridan, Shaw and Wilde, Yeats, Joyce and Beckett are among those presented through their books, letters, portraits and personal items. The splendidly restored Georgian house is a pleasure in itself with its sumptuous plasterwork and decorative stained glass windows. The museum holds exhibitions, readings and lunchti...read more


Galway
Galway is the only city in the province of Connacht in Ireland. In  Irish, Galway is also called Cathair na Gaillimhe: "City of Galway".  Galway city also has a reputation amongst Irish cities for being  associated with the Irish language, music, song and dancing traditions -  it is sometimes referred to as the 'Bilingual Capital of Ireland'. The  city takes its name from the Gaillimh river (River Corrib) that formed  the western boundary of the earliest settlement, which was called D&#250;n  Bhun na Gaillimhe, or the fort at the bottom of the Gaillimh. The word  Gaillimh means "stony" as in "stony river". (the mythical and  alternative derivations are given in History of Galway.) The city also  bears the nickname City of the Tribes / Cathair na dTreabh, because  fourteen[1] &#8220;Tribe...read more


Garnish Island
Take a short boat trip to Garinish Island, set in Bantry Bay. The island has 37 acres of gardens and is renowned for rich plant forms and varying colours, which look attractive in every season. Garnish is world renowned for its gardens which are laid out in beautiful walks and it has some stunning specimen plants which are rare in this climate. The Gardens are the result of the creative partnership of Annan Bryce and Harold Peto, architect and garden designer. The island was bequeathed to the Irish people in 1953, and was subsequently entrusted to the care of the Commissioners of Public Works. Garinish Island is renowned for its richness of plant form and colour, changing continuously with the seasons. The vivid colours of Rhododendrons and Azaleas reach their peak during May and June, whi...read more


Glens of Antrim
The Glens of Antrim are naturally unique - within twenty or so square  miles you can enjoy a variations in natural landscape that includes  glacial valleys, sandy beaches, vertical cliffs, tundra plateau, wooded  glens, waterfalls and picturesque villages. Ancient sites and places of  intrigue abound! Comprising nine glens, or valleys, that radiate from the Antrim  Plateau to the coast. The inhabitants of the several glens are descended  primarily from native Irish and Hebridean Scots. The Glens are an area  of outstanding natural beauty and are a major tourist attraction in  north Antrim. Principal towns in the Glens are Ballycastle, Cushendun,  Cushendall, Waterfoot and Carnlough. Beginning with Glentaisie on the  western side of Knocklayde, next in line of the glens comes Glenshesk on  ...read more


James Joyce Centre
James Augustine Aloysius Joyce (2 February 1882 &#8211; 13 January 1941) was an Irish expatriate writer, widely considered to be one of the most influential writers of the 20th century. He is best known for his landmark novel Ulysses (1922) and its controversial successor Finnegans Wake (1939), as well as the short story collection Dubliners (1914) and the semi-autobiographical novel A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (1916). Although he spent most of his adult life outside Ireland, Joyce's psychological and fictional universe is firmly rooted in his native Dublin, the city which provides the settings and much of the subject matter for all his fiction. In particular, his tempestuous early relationship with the Irish Roman Catholic Church is reflected through a similar inner conflict i...read more


James Joyce Tower and Museum
Joyce&#8217;s brief stay here inspired the opening of his great novel Ulysses, whose first chapter is set in this very tower. &#160;The gun platform with its panoramic view, and the living room inside the tower, are much as he described them in his book. &#160;Ulysses is a giant work of the imagination, both epic and hilarious, which immortalised Dublin and established Joyce as one of the greatest writers of the age. Joyce&#8217;s relationship with Ireland and the church and his unrelenting dedication to his art make his own life as enthralling as his books. &#160;The museum&#8217;s collection includes letters, photographs, first and rate editions and personal possessions of Joyce, as well as items associated with the Dublin of Ulysses. The Joyce Tower is one of a series of Martello Towers...read more


Killary Harbour
Killary Harbour / An Caol&#225;ire Rua is Ireland's only "fjord". While it is  known widely as Ireland's only fjord, it is disputed that it was  actually formed by glaciers. It forms a partial border between counties  Galway and Mayo. It is 16 kilometres long and in the centre it is over  45 metres deep. On its northern shore lies the mountain of Mweelrea, 817  metres high. Directly opposite, on the southern, Galway side and near  the mouth of the fjord, lies the hamlet of Rossroe and the former An  &#211;ige youth hostel, now disused. This building was itself converted and  extended for the purpose and was formerly a modest house which was used  by Ludwig Wittgenstein, the famous philosopher, as a quiet place to  write shortly after World War II. A plaque to this effect was unveiled  ...read more


Kinsale
The medieval town of Kinsale is not just about food, it&#8217;s also about traditional bars, beautiful buildings, narrow streets, shops and galleries and lots of activities on land and sea. You'll find Kinsale's not just a place - it's more a state of mind! Drive to Kinsale, a delightful old town on a narrow inlet of the sea. Formerly a fishing and merchant town, today it is popular for sailing and gourmet food. Join a local guide for a short walking tour to see some historic places. Start at Charles Fort to understand the importance of Kinsale&#8217;s location for trading and defense and then walk around some of the old streets. Kinsale can easily claim its place amongst Ireland's most historic locations for this has been a centre of population, commerce, trade and fishing far beyond memo...read more


Kylemore Abbey
Visit Kylemore Abbey, a 19th century mansion with an exquisite chapel  and reception rooms. The Abbey is the oldest of the Irish Benedictine  Abbeys. It is a Benedictine monastery founded in 1920 on the grounds of  Kylemore Castle, in Connemara, County Galway, Ireland. The abbey was  founded for Benedictine Nuns who fled Belgium in World War I. At Kylemore, the nuns opened their international boarding school and  established a day school for local girls. They also ran a farm and  guesthouse; the guesthouse was closed after a devastating fire in 1959. A  section of the Abbey (the enclosure) is retained strictly for the nuns&#8217;  use and is not open to the public; here the nuns devote themselves to  their monastic life of prayer and work. Originally called Kylemore Castle, it was built be...read more


Mizen Head Signal Station
Mizen Head (Irish: Carn U&#237; N&#233;id), at the western extremity of the  peninsula formerly known as the Ivagha Peninsula or U&#237;bh Eachach, is the  south-westernmost point of Ireland, is one of the extreme points of the  island of Ireland. It lies in west County Cork, Ireland, and is a  tourist attraction. Located on the promontory are an old signalling  station, a weather station, and a lighthouse. The signalling station,  now a museum, is open to visitors. The "99 steps" are a long series of  steps on the pathway across to the rocky outcrop upon which the station  was built. The villages of Ballydehob, Goleen, and Schull are located on  the peninsula. Contrary to popular belief, Mizen Head is not the most southerly  point on the mainland of Ireland. Nearby Brow Head holds t...read more


Molly Gallivans Cottage &amp; Farm
At Molly Gallivan you will experience the simple lifestyle in rural  Ireland before the days of electricity and modern conveniences. Molly&#8217;s  enchanting cottage is over 200 years old. Her farm is complete with  animals, fowl and traditional farm machinery. The house is over 200 years old! Originally a single story thatched  cottage, part of which still remains, it was extended, raised and slated  in the early 1900s. There has been little change since then. The house  as it is today was home to one of Molly&#8217;s descendants until 1997. The  large open hearth, where the fire rarely if ever went out, was the only  energy source providing hot water, heat and cooking facilities. Molly Gallivan was widowed with seven small children Molly Gallivan  had to call on all her resourcefulness ...read more


Muckross House, Gardens and Traditional Farms
This nineteenth century Victorian mansion is set against the stunning beauty of Killarney National Park. The house stands close to the shores of Muckross Lake, one of Killarney's three lakes, famed world wide for their splendour and beauty. As a focal point within Killarney National Park, Muckross House is the ideal base from which to explore this landscape. Muckross House was built for Henry Arthur Herbert and his wife, the water-colourist Mary Balfour Herbert. This was actually the fourth house that successive generations of the Herbert family had occupied at Muckross over a period of almost two hundred years. William Burn, the well-known Scottish architect, was responsible for its design. Building commenced in 1839 and was completed in 1843....read more


National Gallery
The National Gallery of Ireland (Irish: Ghaileara&#237; N&#225;isi&#250;nta na  h&#201;ireann) houses the Irish national collection of Irish and European  art. It is located in the centre of Dublin with one entrance on Merrion  Square, beside Leinster House, and another on Clare Street. It was  founded in 1854 and opened its doors ten years later. The Gallery has an  extensive, representative collection of Irish painting and is also  notable for its Italian Baroque and Dutch masters painting. Entry to the  gallery is free. The Gallery was unlucky not to have been founded around an existing  collection, but through diligent and skilful purchase, by the time it  opened it had 125 paintings, in 1866 an annual purchase grant was  established and by 1891 space was already limited. In 18...read more


National Museum of Ireland
Collins Barracks could be said to be the National Museum of Ireland's  largest artifact, having had a unique history all of its own in another  life. It now completes the picture for the National Museum in Dublin and  joins the two already famous buildings in the possession of the Museum. Collins Barracks has been completely renovated and restored to become  the National Museum of Decorative Arts and History - charting Ireland's  economic, social, political and military progress through the ages. Artifacts on display range from silver, ceramic and glassware pieces  to weaponry, furniture, examples of folk life and costume. All of these  are displayed with imagination in innovative and contemporary galleries,  which entice you to go further, look harder and examine more closely. ...read more


Quiet Man
Visit locations from The Quiet Man film such as the dying man's  house, Innisfree, Castletown, the river fight scene, 'hats in the air'  scene, Rev. Playfairs house, Pat Cohan's Bar and many more. After the tour explore the Quiet Man Cottage Museum and take in some  of the local history. The 35 minute tour contains lots of information  and stories from the making of the Quiet Man, and is a real trip into  the past. Sean Thornton (John Wayne), an Irish-American from Pittsburgh,  returns to Ireland to reclaim his family's farm. He meets and falls in  love with the fiery Mary Kate Danaher (Maureen O'Hara), sister of the  bullying, loud-mouthed landowner "Red" Will Danaher (Victor McLaglen).  Danaher at first refuses to sanction the marriage until he is tricked  into believing that a wealthy w...read more


Shaw Birthplace Museum 
&#8216;Author of many plays&#8217; is the simple accolade to George Bernard Shaw on the plaque outside his birthplace.&#160; His Victorian home and early life mirrors this simplicity. The first home of the Shaw family and the renowned playwright at 33 Synge Street has been restored to its Victorian elegance and charm, and has the appearance that the family has just gone out for the afternoon. The neat terraced house is as much a celebration of Victorian Dublin domestic life as of the early years of one of Dublin&#8217;s Nobel prize-winners for literature: full of the nostalgia and the atmosphere of another time.It was in this house, opened to the public in 1993, that Shaw began to gather the store of characters that would later populate his books, from the drawing-room where Mrs Shaw held ...read more


Skellig Experience
The Skellig Islands (Irish: Na Scealaga) are two small, steep and  rocky islands lying about 16 km west of Bolus Head on the Iveragh  Peninsula in County Kerry, Ireland. They are famous for their thriving  gannet and puffin populations, and for an early Christian monastery that  is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The smaller island is Little Skellig  (Sceilig Bheag in Irish). It is closed to the public, and holds  Ireland's largest and the world's second-largest Northern Gannet colony,  with almost 30,000 pairs. It is about 1.5 km east of Great Skellig. Also known as Skellig Michael (Sceilig Mhich&#237;l in Irish), Great  Sceilig is the larger of the two islands, rising to over 230 m above sea  level. With a sixth-century Christian monastery perched on a ledge  close to the top, Great Skel...read more


Skellig Islands
The Skellig Islands (Irish: Na Scealaga) are two small, steep and  rocky islands lying about 16 km west of Bolus Head on the Iveragh  Peninsula in County Kerry, Ireland. They are famous for their thriving  gannet and puffin populations, and for an early Christian monastery that  is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The smaller island is Little Skellig  (Sceilig Bheag in Irish). It is closed to the public, and holds  Ireland's largest and the world's second-largest Northern Gannet colony,  with almost 30,000 pairs. It is about 1.5 km east of Great Skellig. Also known as Skellig Michael (Sceilig Mhich&#237;l in Irish), Great  Sceilig is the larger of the two islands, rising to over 230 m above sea  level. With a sixth-century Christian monastery perched on a ledge  close to the top, Great Skel...read more


Valentia Island
Cross to Valencia Island by bridge to visit the Skellig Experience to  learn about early Christian monks who braved a harsh existence on the  rocky offshore islands. Continue your trip through the remote villages  of Cahirciveen and Waterville. Valentia, one of the largest islands off the South West coast of  Kerry, is joined to the mainland by bridge via the Portmagee Channel.  The island is one of great beauty and contrast. The western part of the  island is dominated by the barren, dramatic cliffs of Bray Head which  command spectacular views of the Kerry coastline while the mild effect  of the Gulf Stream results in Valentia's balmy climate and lush,  colourful vegetation. In The Skellig Experience Centre you can experience many aspects of  the offshore Skellig islands while remaining ...read more


Westport
Westport is a town in County Mayo in Ireland. It is at the south-east corner of Clew Bay, an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean on the west coast of Ireland. Westport, designated one of Bord Failte's Heritage Towns, is situated in the shadow of Croagh Park. One of the few planned towns in the Country, Westport was designed in the 18th Century by James Wyatt. It has become one of Ireland's established tourism centres. The famous pilgrimage mountain of Croagh Patrick, known locally as "the Reek" lies some 10km west of the town near the villages of Murrisk and Lecanvey. The mountain presents a striking backdrop to the town. Croagh Patrick, one of Europe's best known places of Pilgrimage, has provided a tough ascent for many pilgrims each year, climbing barefoot in the memory of St. Patrick, who spen...read more


  Call us now to talk through your vacation options!  USA &amp; Canada Toll-Free
1877 298 7205 UK FreeFone
0800 096 9438 International
+353 69 77686  
 
   
AttractionsCities &amp; TownsExhibits &amp; ToursFestivalsGolf CoursesHistoric Sites &amp; BuildingsMuseums &amp; Art GalleriesNational Parks &amp; GardensPubs &amp; MusicScenic AttractionsShows &amp; EntertainmentFamily Friendly Attractions


  Customer Testimonial&#160;
<blockquote>Dear Liz,

Thank you for your interest. Yes, we enjoyed our visit to Ireland very much. The scenery was great and the people we met were fantastic. We loved your rich history and culture. And even the thing we feared most i.e. driving on the left, we managed succesfully thanks to the very good system of road signs and warnings. 

Last but not least, let me thank you for enabling me and my wife one of the finest holidays we ever had. Keep up the good work and all the best!

Dejan Novosel, Maribor, Slovenia

</blockquote>Read more of what our customers have to say...


  Browse Irish Tourism Tours...   Irish Castles &amp; ManorsIrish Castles and Manors (Silver)Irish Castles and Manors (Gold)Irish Castles and Manors (Platinum)  
 
  Self Drive Tours of Ireland6 Night Self Drive Tours7 Night Self Drive Tours8 Night Self Drive Tours10 Night Self Drive Tours12 Night Self Drive Tours14 Night Self Drive ToursThe Brian Boru TrailViking Trails of Ireland Tour Wild Atlantic WayFestivals in IrelandChauffeur Tours of IrelandIndependent Vacations of IrelandCustomized Self Drive ToursBudget Car RentalSelf Drive Tours FAQ 
  Escorted Bus Tours of IrelandEscorted Bus Tours IrelandScotland Only Escorted Bus ToursScotland &amp; Ireland Escorted Bus ToursBritain Escorted Bus ToursIreland &amp; Britain Escorted Bus ToursCIE ToursEscorted Bus Tours FAQIrishTourism Themed ToursTravel Protection Plan for Escorted Bus Tours 
  Private Group Tours of Ireland 
  Golf Tours of Ireland 
  Honeymoons in Ireland 
 
 
  Contact UsPrivacyTerms &amp; ConditionsTravel AgentsAbout Us 
 
 
