 

				Blog
Top Destinations

	Tanzania
	
		Zanzibar
	

	Ethiopia
	Uganda
	Kenya
	East Africa
	West Africa
	
		Nigeria
	

Travel Guides

	Travel Tips
	Curiosities


News&amp;Events
FR
Jumia Travel


	Ethiopia Travel Guide
	News&amp;Events

					Tourism in Ethiopia &#8211; Top 5 Tourist attractions in Ethiopia


						By&#160;Elizabeth &#160;|&#160;November 13, 2015

						0 Comments 

					
								Tweet

							
Pin It

							
Ethiopia is a country that has diverse tourist attractions and for this reason, tourism in Ethiopia has continued to grow recording positive progress in tourist arrivals over the last few years. Ethiopia has unique cultural heritage, stunning landscapes and hospitable people. This vibrant land has plenty to captivate visitors, which has made it&#160;the world&#8217;s best tourism destination according to the European Council on Tourism and Trade.


Tourism in Ethiopia is highlighted by quite a variety of attractions. Some of these top attractions in Ethiopia include the monolithic rock-hewn churches with breath taking architectural designs in the ancient city of Lalibela. There are 11 rock-hewn churches each carved out of a single block of granite.


The Church of Saint George, a monolithic church in Lalibela.


Fasil Ghebbi is another major asset for tourism in Ethiopia. The fortress-city of Fasil Ghebbi was the residence of the Ethiopian emperors during the 16th and 17th Century. The city contains palaces, churches, monasteries and unique public and private buildings marked with Hindu and Arab influences.


Another beautiful attraction contributing to the growth of Ethiopia tourism is Danakil Depression, located in the Afar Region. It is one of the hottest places on earth, recording temperatures of up to 125 degrees Celsius. The Danakil Depression is covered by impressive expanses of yellow mounds of sulfur, salt and mineral deposits.


Acid pools in Dallol, Danakil Depression.


The Simien Mountains National Park is another significant asset for Ethiopia tourism. The Simien Mountains National Park is often dubbed the Grand Canyon of Africa due to its undulating plateau and deep valleys. This UNESCO World Heritage Site is home to a number of endangered species including the Ethiopian wolf and Walia ibex.


A typically spectacular view of the Simien Mountains National Park.


Ethiopia is also a perfect centre for safari and adventure tourism. Just like its counterparts in East Africa, the country&#8217;s parks are a major contributor in the sector of tourism in Ethiopia. The country has several parks including Awash National Park, Bale Mountains National Park, Omo National Park among others that are suitable for this special kind of tourism. There are also necessary infrastructural networks, and many hotels in Ethiopia&#160;for guests visiting these parks making Ethiopia, one of the world's top adventure destinations.


							Related Items AwashDestinationsEast AfricaEthiopiaFasil GhebbiLalibelaNational ParksafariSimien MountainsUNESCO
						

						&#8592; Previous Story Jumia Travel Launches Amharic Customer Service in Ethiopia
					

						Next Story &#8594; No Public Holiday During Pope Francis Visit to Kenya
					

            	You may also like... 

			
					Get Ready for Jumia Travel Black Friday 2016

				
					Bazaruto Archipelago: Best Diving Destinations

				
					Discover Africa Great Lakes

				
			Leave a Reply  Cancel reply				
					

Connect with us 

				
Top posts 


								Elizabeth  | October 31, 2016 

								Get Ready for Jumia Travel Black Friday 2016

								What is Black Friday? Black Friday is a popular shopping festival that comes after Thanksgiving in the US....


								Jumia Travel  | October 26, 2016 

								Bazaruto Archipelago: Best Diving Destinations

								Bazaruto Archipelago consists of 6 islands, and it is located in Vilanculos, Inhambane Province in Mozambique. The three...


								Elizabeth  | October 21, 2016 

								Discover Africa Great Lakes

								Africa is home to Lake Victoria, the second largest fresh water lake in the world among other prominent...


Facebook 
		

					About Jumia Travel Africa


						With over 25 000 hotels in Africa, we provide you with full and reliable information about the best hotels in the places you visit around the world: Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia...
Seamless &amp; secure online booking just a few clicks away.


							Copyright &#169; 2016 &gt; Jumia Travel


					Latest News


								Elizabeth  | October 31, 2016 

								Get Ready for Jumia Travel Black Friday 2016

								What is Black Friday? Black Friday is a popular shopping festival that comes after Thanksgiving in the US....


								Jumia Travel  | October 26, 2016 

								Bazaruto Archipelago: Best Diving Destinations

								Bazaruto Archipelago consists of 6 islands, and it is located in Vilanculos, Inhambane Province in Mozambique. The three...


								Elizabeth  | October 21, 2016 

								Discover Africa Great Lakes

								Africa is home to Lake Victoria, the second largest fresh water lake in the world among other prominent...


								Jumia Travel  | October 13, 2016 

								Tanzania Travel Tips Every Traveller Needs

								Tanzania is one of the most popular destinations in East Africa. Tanzania travel tips help you find the...


								Jumia Travel  | October 12, 2016 

								10 Best Attractions in Zambia

								You need to visit Zambia. Its wealth of natural attractions, cultures and landscapes is unmatched. Here are 10...


								Jumia Travel  | October 11, 2016 

								7 Days in Zanzibar: What to Do

								Zanzibar is the perfect destination for a 7 day Beach safari to&#160;explore exotic white sandy beaches, historical centres,...


Tags

				
				Travel &amp; Trip
Kenya
Beach
Destinations
airport
National Park
safari
Holidays
tanzania
Ethiopia
family
Wildlife
Nairobi
Lodges
food
Romantic
Travel Book
Budget Hotels
East Africa
Addis-Ababa
Tips
Uganda
Mobile
Lagos
africa
zanzibar
Technology
South Africa
mombasa
UNESCO				


