  Places of Interest in Mongolia
      Travel Tips   
   Phyllis Greene, studioD   
 
      
  Mongolia's mountains are home to the elusive snow leopard.   (Photo: Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images )  

  
   Related Articles Famous Landmarks in Mongolia Famous Places in Mongolia Mongolia Tourist Attractions Fun &amp; Attractive Things to Do in Mongolia    Roughly the size of Alaska, Mongolia is vast and sparsely populated. This ancient country is best-known in the Western world as the home of Genghis Khan, the leader of the Mongol tribes who ruthlessly built a large Asian empire in the 13th century. Mongolia's capital city, Ulaanbaatar, has changed greatly since the days of Genghis Khan, but the countryside remains home to nomadic sheepherders who ride camels and horses and live in felt tents called "gers." Mongolia has recently become an intriguing tourist destination.

 
  Ulaanbaatar If you're traveling to Mongolia, you probably arrive first in Ulaanbaatar, the political and economical center of the country and the starting point for excursions into the countryside. Most travelers stay in the capital just long enough to take in a few of its highlights. The Winter Palace of Bogd Kahn, the former home of Mongolia's last ruler, is now a public museum that exhibits Kahn's personal belongings, numerous works of Buddhist art and ancient statues. Among the somewhat bizarre attractions are a robe made from the skins of 80 foxes -- a gift from Russia -- and a ger lined with the skins of 150 snow leopards. The Gandan Khiid monastery -- the name means "Great Place of Complete Joy" -- is home to more than 600 monks and one of Ulaanbaatar's biggest tourist attractions. Its Midjid Janraisig Sum temple contains hundreds of images of Ayush, the Buddha of longevity, and a large, hollow gold statue that contains literally tons of herbs, sutras, mantras and even an entire ger with furniture.

 
  Gobi Desert The immense Gobi Desert is a diverse and harsh landscape of sand dunes, rock formations, ice-filled canyons and fertile green oases where dinosaurs once roamed. Days are hot; nights are cold; and travel is difficult; but no trip to Mongolia would be complete without a visit to the Gobi. One of the most accessible areas of the desert, Dundgovi, is a tourist destination a few hours south of Ulaanbaatar. It contains tall granite pinnacles and canyons for hiking and climbing. The nomad communities welcome tourists and offer a glimpse into the everyday lives of Mongolia's people. The Ger to Ger program (gertoger.org) promotes tourism in the Dundgovi area, with camel riding and horseback-riding tours that originate in the capital. A typical tour takes travelers into the desert by bus, on horseback and in camel carts to share meals with Mongolian families in their gers and to visit ancient monasteries.

 
  Karakoram In 1220 Genghis Khan founded the capital city of Karakoram in the central part of Mongolia near the old Silk Road 250 miles from Ulaanbaatar. Destroyed by Manchurian hordes, little is left of the city, but the region is home to a snow-capped mountain range just over 13,000-feet high, which is considered holy by locals. It provides excellent opportunities for horseback riding and mountain treks. The Erdenezuu monastery, built in 1586, is one of the oldest Buddhist monasteries in Mongolia. It contains 108 stupas, the round-shaped spiritual monuments that represent the Buddha's body and mind. Three temples enclosed in a walled compound are dedicated to the three stages of Buddha's life: as a child, an adolescent and an adult. The main temple, the Zuu of Buddha, contains statues of Buddha as a child. Outside the monastery walls are two stone rocks in the shape of turtles; four of these turtles once marked the boundaries of the ancient city.

 
  Bogd Khan National Park The 300-year-old Bogd Khan National Park is about 30 miles south of Ulaanbaatar. It contains more than 300 plant species, sacred mountains with rock carvings, wild animals, birds and a deer farm. The 18th-century monastery, Manzushir Khid, in the southern part of the park, overlooks a valley with streams and pine and birch forests dotted with granite boulders. The park is ideal for hiking and horseback riding, and tours are easily arranged from Ulaanbaatar. One tour company, Discover Mongolia (discovermongolia.mn), takes participants on a three-day tour that includes a drive to the monastery, a horseback ride to visit a nomad family to learn about their way of life and a hike to the highest point on Bogd Khan Mountain.

 
    References  "National Geographic": Genghis Khan Timeline"National Geographic"; "Genghis Khan; Reflections on Modern Mongolia"; Mike Edwards; 1997Lonely Planet: Introducing UlaanbaatarLegend Tour: Bogd Khaan Winter Palace MuseumLonely Planet: Gandan KhiidLonely Planet: Introducing the Gobi 
  Resources  Ger to Ger ProgramDiscover Mongolia: Karakorum and Erdene zuu monasteryDiscover Mongolia: Bogd Khan National Park TrekMongolia-Attractions.com: Welcome to MongoliaOfficial Tourism Website of Mongolia: Discover MongoliaLonely Planet: Introducing Mongolia 
  About the Author  Phyllis Greene is a legal writer and editor who loves to travel. She has worked as a senior legal editor for an international publishing company, produced content for law-related software and represented appellate clients. When not traveling, she writes and edits content for law and travel websites. Greene has a Bachelor of Arts in English literature from CUNY and a J.D. from Lincoln University Law School.

 
  Photo Credits   Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images  
  Suggest an Article Correction 
 
    Related Searches    
    
   More Articles  Trains in Mongolia "Things to Do in Ulan Bator, Mongolia" Tourist Visa for Mongolia Gobi Desert Tours Horseback Riding Trips Across the Steppes in Mongolia "Travel to Lake Baikal, Siberia"   Travel Tips Articles  National Parks &amp; Monuments Found in the Grassland Biome Things to Do in the Taiga "Yurt Camping Near Yosemite, California" "Public Golf Courses in Memphis, Tennessee" How to Travel to Atlantic City Casinos "Vacations in Kingston, Jamaica" "Places to Mountain Bike Near Denver, Colorado" "Tent Camping in Cherokee, N.C." "Winter Activities in Durango, Colorado" Tours Around Hawaii   Test Your Knowledge    Famous Landmarks: Test Your IQ     Can You Pass for a Proper Brit?     Cruisin' Along the PCH: Test Your Knowledge     Happy Camper: Test Your Outdoors Knowledge   
  Powered by studioD 
      This story is part of Travel Tips 
   
 
