 

  										   				Top Holiday reviews 
						   				Top Holiday Destinations Reviews


<center>


</center>


   			Home

   		
		Tweet
	

							Places to Visit in Mongolia

		
Mongolia offers a range of landscapes and vast open spaces, making it a superb destination for trekking and hiking. The typical highlights of a trekking holiday include the renowned areas of Terelj National Park, Altai Tavanbogd National Park, and Khan Khentii Mountain National Park. The best time to visit these attractions is May to September, as the weather is ideal for enjoying the beautiful scenery, night stars, and eternal blue skies. Actual travel distances and time will depend on your itinerary, but on average, you will likely travel around 15to 25 kilometres per day for about 5 to 8 hours.


Terelj National Park


Terelj National Park features a main valley with tourist ger camps where trekkers can rest, eat, and clean up before and after a trip into the wilderness. There are also locals here who offer camels and horses for rent. Outside of this zone, the park is largely undeveloped and difficult to navigate, so you will need a guide during your holiday. Attractions within Terelj National Park include Khagiin Khar Lake, which is a 20-metre deep glacial lake located about 80 kilometres upstream from the camps. Trekkers also visit Yestii Hot Water Springs, a natural hot spring some 18 kilometres further upstream. There is a Buddhist monastery within the park and it is open to tourists.


Terelj attracts rock climbers who come here for famous formations like the Old Man Reading a Book and Turtle Rock. It is also famous for itswildlife, which includes over 200 species of rare birds and brown bears.


Altai Tavanbogd National Park


The Altai Tavanbogd National Park in Western Mongolia is another famous Mongolia trekking destination. Within it&#8217;s boundaries is Mongolia's highest mountain, Khuiten Uul; Cold Mountain &#8211; which stands at 4,374 m, plus Lake Khoton, Khurgan, and Dayan and 34 glaciers. The protected area offers a home for many species of alpine animal, such as the Argali sheep, Ibex, Red deer, Beech marten, Moose, Snow cock, and Golden eagle. Tavan Bogd means the &#8220;Five Holies&#8221; in Mongolia, referring to the 5 main peaks, and is considered sacred to local Kazakhs, Tuvans, and Mongolians.Khan Khentii Mountain National Park


Khan Khentii Mountain National Park


The Khan Khentii is a Strictly Protected Area and wildlife preservation site. Mining and hunting are strictly prohibited, and tourism is tightly controlled. This attraction is said to be the birthplace of Genghis Khan; there are also rumours that this is where his tomb lies. If you are interested in hiking here, you may order a picnic from tourist zone ger camps.


&#160;Read more: Top 3 Places to Visit During Mongolia Trekking Holidays http://www.sooperarticles.com/travel-articles/top-3-places-visit-during-mongolia-trekking-holidays-1396966.html#ixzz3T2Wu53FY

Follow us: @SooperArticles on Twitter | SooperArticles on Facebook


You might also like: 


Top 10 Places to Visit in New York 

Top 3 Places to Visit in Sicily 

Top Tourist Places To Visit In Paris 

5 Reasons to Visit Namibia 


								This entry was posted in Interesting Places, Outdoor Adventure and tagged Altai Tavanbogd National Park, Hiking, Khagiin Khar Lake, Khan Khentii Mountain National Park, Mongolia, Terelj National Park, Trekking, Turtle Rock, Yestii Hot Water Springs. Bookmark the permalink.															

						
							&#8592;  Tenerife &#8211; Villa Las Flores

							International Airport of Mexico City &#8594; 

						
	Comments are closed.


				Categories		
	Amazing Vacation

	Ecotourism

	Events

	Family Holiday

	Food Tours

	Hotels

	Interesting Places

	Outdoor Adventure

	Shopping Tours

	Top Holiday Articles

	Useful Information for travelers

	Weekend Away

		
						Home

				
						All Rights reserved. Copyrights for all the articles provided belong to authors. 					


