 
    
                            Our products
                            News terminal
                            Oil and gas
                            Banking analytics
                        
                                    
                                                                                                RU
                                
                                                                                                AZ
                                
                                                                                                EN
                                
                                                                                                TR
                                
                                                                                                AR
                                
                                                                                                FA
                                
                                                    
                                        Login

                                    
                                        Sign up

                                    
    Latest
                        
                                    Azerbaijan
                    
                                                                                                                                        Politics
                                                                                                                Business
                                                                                                                Nagorno-Karabakh conflict
                                                                                                                Society
                                                                                                                Other News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                            
                                    Business
                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Oil&amp;Gas
                                                                                                                IT
                                                                                                                Economy news
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                            
                                    Iran
                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nuclear Program
                                                                                                                Politics
                                                                                                                Business
                                                                                                                Society
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                            
                                    Central Asia
                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kyrgyzstan
                                                                                                                Kazakhstan
                                                                                                                Turkmenistan
                                                                                                                Tajikistan
                                                                                                                Uzbekistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                            
                                    South Caucasus
                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Armenia
                                                                                                                Georgia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                            
                                    World
                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Turkey
                                                                                                                Arab World
                                                                                                                Israel
                                                                                                                Arab-Israel Relations
                                                                                                                Other News
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                            
                                    Analysis
                            
                                                                                                
        Home 
            
            Central Asia 
        
            
            Kazakhstan 
        
    
        FIVE must see places in Kazakhstan


                5 November 2014 16:09 (UTC+04:00) 
                

                0 
            
        
                0 
            

                Baku, Azerbaijan, Nov. 5


By Elena Kosolapova - Trend:


Kazakhstan is very beautiful and diverse country which has a lot of tourist attractions. But due to its huge territory (Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in the world) it is almost impossible for ordinary tourist to see all places of interest in one trip. So if you have just limited time for a trip to Kazakhstan here are five places which are a must of the country and will make you to fall in love with Kazakhstan for the rest of your live.


1) The city of Astana

Astana is the capital and the second-largest city of Kazakhstan. It is the most modern, beautiful and unusual city of the country. Founded in 1830 it changed names several times as Akmolinsk, Tselinograd, Akmola. However, in 1997 the capital was moved here, and in 1998 this city received a new name - Astana (the capital in Kazakh language). Since becoming the capital, Astana has attracted billions of dollars and undergone tremendous growth. A hundreds of modern buildings, new parks, roads, fountains, monuments, cultural, sports and entertainment facilities, restaurants and world-renowned hotels were build here. As a result, the city acquired a completely new, futuristic and unique look, which has nothing common with the old Soviet provincial Tselinograd. The best time to visit the city is from May to September since it has an extreme continental climate with warm summers and long, very cold, dry winters when the temperature can fall down to - 40 decrees.


2) The city of Almaty

The former capital Almaty is still the largest city and the major commercial and cultural centre in Kazakhstan, as well as its largest population center. It is one of the greenest cities of Kazakhstan with spectacular mountain backdrop. It a perfect destination for winter sports lovers since skating, skiing, snowboarding, ski jumping are very popular here. And for those who admire nature there is a lot of wonderful landscapes several hours drive from the city. Tourists who prefer calmer pastime can visit numerous museums, temples, theaters or pack a picnic in one of the numerous parks of the city.


3) The city of Baikonur and Baikonur Cosmodrome

Baikonur is a home city of the world's first and largest operational space launch facility located in the desert steppe of Kazakhstan. Baikonur Cosmodrome is the site of many spacefaring feats like the first operational intercontinental ballistic missile, the launch of Sputnik and the launch of the first manned orbital flight by Yuri Gagarin, first dog in space, "Leica," and first woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova.


When Kazakhstan was part of the Soviet Union, Baikonur was closed to all visitors unless they were first cleared by the Soviet security services. Now however, the city and the cosmodrome have become prime tourist attractions. Tourists with a very large checkbook can purchase a seat into space. However, you may still need special permission to access the cosmodrome, so check with a tourism office.


4) Lake Balkhash

Lake Balkhash is one of the largest lakes in Asia. Nature of Balkhash is amazing and full of contrasts. The lake is divided by a strait into two distinct parts. The western part is fresh water, while the eastern half is saline. Beach tourism and water sports such as sailing, rowing, canoeing and sport fishing are very popular at the lake. One of the natural attractions of the region is the mountain chain Bectauata decorated with a variety of cliffs and canyons - beautiful place of Northern Balkhash. Mountainside Bekctauata formed cave "Auliye" with fresh water, which is considered holy, and the water is healing. The lake and its coasts have a rich flora and fauna with lot of species of fish, birds and plants many of which are in the Red Book.


5) Burabay (Borovoye) resort.

Burabay National Nature Park is one of the most unique and beautiful places in Kazakhstan. It is located not far from the capital, Astana and is often called "Kazakhstan's Alps" due to its beautiful landscape. Magnificent mountains, blue lakes, pine woods, larch forests and a number of rivers, springs combined here and created unique view completely different from the rest of Kazakhstan. Burabay (Borovoye) resort with a number of sanatoriums and health centers available all year around is one of the most visited destinations for domestic tourists.


                Tags:
                                    tourist attractions
                                    Kazakhstan
                                    tourism
                            
            
        Related news

        
                                Tenge rate down at Kazakhstan's Stock Exchange on Oct. 31                                
                                    Economy news 
                                     
                                                                             
                                    31 October 13:58 
                                

                                Fitch affirms Kazakhstan at 'BBB'; Outlook Stable                                
                                    Kazakhstan 
                                     
                                                                  
                                    31 October 12:36 
                                

                                Kyrgyzstan postpones summit of Turkic speaking countries                                
                                    Kyrgyzstan 
                                     
                                                                  
                                    31 October 10:26 
                                

                                Kazakhstan reveals Oct. 30 oil &amp; gas output                                
                                    Oil&amp;Gas 
                                     
                                                                             
                                    31 October 10:13 
                                

                                Kazakhstan eyes to get 1 mln tons of Kashagan oil till year-end                                
                                    Kazakhstan 
                                     
                                                                  
                                    29 October 10:13 
                                

                                Azerbaijan eyes to boost fruit, vegetable export to Kazakhstan                                
                                    Business 
                                     
                                                                  
                                    28 October 18:57 
                                

                                Moscow expects convention on Caspian Sea status                                
                                    Other News 
                                     
                                                                  
                                    28 October 15:56 
                                

                                Tenge rate down at Kazakhstan's Stock Exchange on Oct. 28                                
                                    Economy news 
                                     
                                                                             
                                    28 October 15:09 
                                

                                Kazakhstan reveals Oct. 27 oil &amp; gas output                                
                                    Oil&amp;Gas 
                                     
                                                                             
                                    28 October 12:02 
                                

    Most popular

    
            Azerbaijan eyes closer contact with OPEC - minister

        
                    Iran, Hungary negotiating to sign long-term oil deal

                
                    Iran accuses US of not keeping word under JCPOA

                
                    Presidential elections declared valid in Moldova

                
    Commentary

    
            Iranian Turks&#8217; new parliamentary faction breaking more taboos

        
                    Iran targets mid-term LNG exports of 2.7 bcm a year

                
                    Mogherini visiting Iran, Saudi Arabia as painkiller

                
                                            About
                                            Our Team
                                            Partners

                                        
                                                                                        Our products
                                                                                        Info Service
                                            News archive
                                        
                                    
                            Contacts

                            
                                14, Bakhtiyar Vahabzade, Baku, Azerbaijan, AZ1141

                                
                                    +(994 12) 497-31-72

                                    agency@trend.az

                                    +(994 12) 497-30-89

                                
                &#169; 2016 Trend News Agency
  Terms of use

                
