 
	
				By Marissa Polascak,


Well, readers, it sure is summertime here in South Carolina where I am penning this. The sun is shining bright, the beach is filled with tourists, and it is hot, hot, hot! But for those of you who are planning to visit Kazakhstan during its beautiful summer, or for those of you who may live near Astana or Almaty, this post may be interesting and helpful.


Kazakhstan&#8217;s capital is full of fun and educational things to do all year round. But here are some of the great places to visit during the summer in Astana.


1. Khan Shatyr


afisha.yandex.kz


With unique architecture (this place is shaped like a gigantic tent), Khan Shatyr is the ultimate entertainment plaza.&#160;&#160;The center contains a variety of shops and restaurants, as well as a movie theatre to entertain guests. But the great part about Khan Shatyr is that it holds a waterpark as well as an indoor sand beach! These attractions are open year-round, as Khan Shatyr is a climate-controlled environment.&#160;&#160;Doesn&#8217;t everyone enjoy some good shopping, food, and swimming in the summer? I know I sure do.


2. Duman Entertainment Center


visit-astana.kz


Personally, when I think of the summer, I think of the ocean.&#160;&#160;But Astana is located approximately 3,000 km away from the nearest one! Fortunately, though, the Duman Entertainment Center provides tourists and residents of Astana with a taste of the ocean life. This aquarium is home to 2,000 sea creatures of over 100 different species and types. The center also contains a 4D theatre, a dome area with many pictures symbols, restaurants, and shops.&#160;&#160;Also, along with the shows in the moving 4D theatre, the aquarium puts on shows with mermaids, and also allows visitors to watch the feeding of the sharks.&#160;&#160;This definitely sounds like a place worth checking out!


Approximately 1,200 km away from Astana is Almaty, a bustling city with many things to see and do. If you are planning to travel to Almaty during the summer months, here are some places that may be fitting for a summer time mood.


3. Eight Lakes


aqualand.su


Eight Lakes is a park resort that is located away from the city and surrounded by serene lakes.&#160;&#160;This resort area just screams &#8220;summer&#8221; with the attractions it has to offer. Guests at Eight Lakes enjoy three large swimming pools, gardens, a sauna, and a barbecue are for families to grill their favorite summer time dishes. Also, guests may enjoy playing tennis, mini-golf, biking and fishing. Along with the lovely activities and amenities offered at Eight Lakes comes the comfort of the beautiful, relaxing cottages for guests to enjoy. These cottages top off the summer-feel with patios complete with outdoor furniture, so guests may bask in the summer from the comfort of their temporary home.


4. Kok-Tube Hill


forum.garena.ru


If you want to enjoy the view of Almaty from above, visit the cable-car attraction at Kok-Tube Hill. The cable-car, similar to an enclosed ski-lift, takes guests up into the sky, above Almaty, providing a beautiful view of the mountains and vineyards surrounding. Guests are greeted by a small zoo, souvenir stores, restaurants, a children's playground, and other attractions. Whether you come to enjoy the view, the food, or just relaxation time in a beautiful spot, Kok-Tube Hill is an outdoor attraction sure to please visitors in the summer months.


5. The Arasan Baths


www.bany.kz


Whether you are a local or are on vacation, relaxing is always nice in the summer. That&#8217;s why the Arasan Baths is a bathhouse that is great to visit during the summer months (well, any month really!) The bathhouse is regarded as the best one in Central Asia, and is known for its impeccable cleanliness and great facilities. Arasan Baths offers separate bathhouses for men and women, as well as the option to shower, steam, or hang out in the sauna. Guests may also enjoy the option of having a nice massage! The Arasan Baths provides a nice atmosphere to get out of the summer heat and into the realm of serenity and relaxation.


Well, readers, there you have it. Keep in mind, though, these are just a few of the countless number of great places to visit in Almaty and Astana in the summer.&#160;&#160;KazakhWorld wishes readers to have a fun and safe summer!


        	AlmatyAstanaDuman Entertainment CenterEight LakesKAZKazakhKazakhstanKhan ShatyrKok-Tube HillKZThe Arsan Baths        

		 
